<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ891012-0091"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   
 
Last February, Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines' 700-foot Celebration
cut a Cuban freighter in half in a collision off Cuba, killing three
Cuban sailors.

In March 1988, an engine fire broke out on SeaEscape's Bahamian cruise
ship, the Scandinavian Star.  Automatic fire extinguishers and the
emergency generator failed.

The National Transportation Safety Board said many foreign-flag cruise
ships that sail from U.S. ports have serious safety problems and the
potential for a catastrophic accident is significant.

The board is seeking both legislation and voluntary cooperation from
the industry to improve cruise-ship safety, which it says is marred by
the less-than-exacting rules governing foreign-flag carriers.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880316-0061"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

An engine fire broke out early today on a cruise ship carrying more
than 700 people in the Gulf of Mexico, but the blaze appeared to have
been brought under control, according to officials.

The Scandinavian Star was about 35 miles off Isla Mujares, a Mexican
island north of the tourist resort Cancun in the Yucatan Peninsula.

Petty Officer Brian Lincoln of the U.S. Coast Guard's Miami office
said no injuries were reported.  "All we know is that the ship's
captain "is completely out of fire-fighting equipment and has
requested additional equipment such as foam, water and CO2," said
Lincoln.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880316-0208"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

An engine room fire Wednesday disabled a cruise ship off the Mexican
coast, but the crew extinguished the blaze.

The Navy cutter Vigilant escorted the 465-foot ship, the Scandinavian
Star, into port as a precaution, according to Chief Petty Officer Luis
Diaz of the U.S. Coast Guard in Miami.

There were no injuries from the fire, but a 71-year-old St. Petersburg
man suffered a heart attack and was being taken home aboard a Coast
Guard plane.

The Scandinavian Star was on a 3-day cruise to Cozumel, Mexico, and
was returning to St. Petersburg when the fire broke out about 8
a.m. EST Wednesday.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881109-0149" 
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

The cruise ship Song of America was forced to return to port after an
engine seized up and started a small fire, but no one was hurt.

The ship left Miami on Sunday with about 1,300 passengers on a
Caribbean cruise.  Rick Steck, a spokesman for Royal Caribbean Cruise
Line said the fire was quickly doused by crewmembers.  The passengers,
who had been brought on deck, were allowed to resume the evening's
activities.

The 705-foot ship turned around and returned to Cozumel on its
remaining three engines to replenish firefighting supplies. The
passengers stayed aboard, and the ship will return to Miami on
Thursday or Friday.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900601-0099"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
  
Someone sat a fire early today in a storage room on the luxury liner
Regent Star, five days after the ship ran aground in Delaware Bay
after another fire cut off power, authorities said.

No passengers were aboard and no injuries were reported in the blaze
which was controlled in 90 minutes said a fire department dispatcher.

Just Sunday, the 20,000-ton liner was on its way from Jamaica to
Philadelphia when a small fire prompted a power loss, allowing the
ship to drift onto a sandbar.  None of the passengers were injured and
were taken off the ship by ferry on Monday.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881017-0098"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Fire broke out aboard a Soviet passenger liner carrying French
tourists on a cruise of the Mediterranean, but the crew put out the
blaze and no passengers were injured, Tass reported Monday.

The ship docked at the Maltese port of Valletta and the tourists were
expected to continue their voyage on another Soviet ship.

This was the second fire aboard a Soviet cruise ship in recent months.
On May 18, a blaze broke out on Priamurye while it was in the Japanese
port of Osaka.  Eleven Soviets were killed in that fire and 26 others
were hospitalized in critical condition, Tass reported.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06052157"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

More than 3,000 passengers and crewmembers were evacuated early
Wednesday from the Sovereign of the Seas cruise ship after a fire
broke out in a pantry.  One crewman suffered from smoke inhalation,
but there were no other injuries in the fire.  The ship was moored in
San Juan when the fire was discovered.

The 14-deck, 800-foot luxury liner will return to Miami where it will
be met by a two- member team from the National Transportation and
Safety Board to investigate the fire.

The board has been concerned about safety in the cruise ship industry
because of the potential for a major disaster.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880622-0262"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Safety standards may not be stringent enough in the cruise industry,
the chairman of a federal agency investigating the March engine-room
fire aboard the Scandinavian Star said Wednesday.

A crew member discovered the March 15 fire aboard the Star, carrying
439 mostly American passengers, as the ship returned form Cozumel,
Mexico to Tampa.

Smoke detectors and automatic systems to douse the fire failed.  Also,
the ship's emergency generators didn't work for an hour.

The Safety board will examine whether existing Coast Guard procedures
and international regulations are adequate to protect passengers or
whether more rigorous standards are needed.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06294205"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

"We're in a race with a catastrophe," says Alan Pollock of the
National Transportation Safety Board on efforts to improve cruise ship
safety.  He said a cruise ship disaster would create overwhelming
pressure for new safety regulations, but he would rather take
preventive action.

Safety experts are primarily concerned with fire protection,
especially in the big new atrium ships, the ability of crewmembers to
give safety instructions in a language that passengers understand and
the aging of the world fleet of cruise ships.

Jim Bennett, chairman of the National Transportation and Safety Board
said, "The potential for loss of life is enormous."  </SUM>
