<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="WSJ870608-0066 WSJ870603-0003 WSJ910517-0117 WSJ910517-0205
WSJ891030-0101 WSJ870804-0097 SJMN91-06184008 FT931-10514
AP891125-0090 FT941-1163 SJMN91-06041121"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

From 1987 to 1994, Alan Greenspan successfully maneuvered through
three administrations as Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve
Bank.  Many have called this position the second most powerful in the
country.

Greenspan, born in 1926, was head of a Wall Street consulting firm for
decades.  The economist first served in the government under Ford.  He
received his PhD in 1977.  Greenspan was unmarried but enjoys
socializing, has a dry sense of humor, and excellent press relations.
Considered a moderate Republican, Greenspan has past ties to more
conservative philosophies.  He is considered anti-supply-side,
anti-inflation, anti-capital gains tax, and anti-budget deficit.

As chief of the Fed, he cautiously led the economy with gradual
changes in the interest rate, controlling the cash flow but gently
stimulating the economy when necessary.  While working with the
administrations' economic policy staffs, he still is able to maintain
the Fed's independence from both White House and Congressional
interference.  Although criticized during the 1990-1991, recession
Greenspan was credited with avoiding a depression and laying the
groundwork for the vigorous recovery.  Greenspan courted the Clinton
Administration, supporting its deficit-cutting measures and
maintaining a low profile, and appeared to be the best candidate for
reappointment in 1996.  </SUM>
