<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="WSJ870608-0066 WSJ870603-0003 WSJ910517-0117 WSJ910517-0205
WSJ891030-0101 WSJ870804-0097 SJMN91-06184008 FT931-10514
AP891125-0090 FT941-1163 SJMN91-06041121"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
  
From 1987 to 1994, Alan Greenspan successfully maneuvered through
three administrations as Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve
Bank.  Greenspan was first appointed by Reagan in 1987, succeeding
Paul Volcker.  Many have called this position the second most powerful
in the country.

Greenspan, born in 1926, was head of an Wall Street consulting firm,
Townsend- Greenspan, where he analyzed the minutia of business cycles
for decades.  The economist first served in the government when he
headed the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ford.  He
supported Ford in the 1980 Republican convention and helped shore- up
social security in 1983.  Not an academic, he did receive his PhD in
1977, but his dissertation cannot be found.  Greenspan was unmarried
but enjoys socializing, has a dry sense of humor, and excellent press
relations, including dating female journalists.  He is a good
consensus builder.  Considered a moderate Republican, Greenspan has
past ties to more conservative philosophies, including those of ultra
conservative, social Darwinist author, Ayn Rand.  He is considered
anti-supply side, is a foe of inflation, supports cutting the budget
deficit, and would like to end taxing capital gains.  He supported
Reagan's pro-bank-deregulation.  One spectacular failure in judgment
which occurred when he lobbied with Charles Keating, Jr., to lift
federal regulations restricting thrift institutions direct investment
in real estate development.

As chief of the Fed, he cautiously led the economy with gradual
changes in the interest rate, controlling the cash flow but gently
stimulating the economy when necessary.  While working with the
administrations' economic policy staffs, he still is able to maintain
the Fed's independence from both White House and Congressional
interference.  The Bush administration endured the October 13, 1989,
stock market plunge, the 1990-1991 recession, bank failures, budget
deficits, the 1991 Persian Gulf War, and low consumer confidence.
Bush's economic advisors and Congress who raised taxes three months
into a recession expected the Fed to energize a recovery.  Although
criticized during the recession Greenspan was credited with avoiding a
depression and laying the groundwork for the vigorous recovery.  He
was reappointed by Bush in 1991.

Greenspan courted the Clinton Administration, supporting its
deficit-cutting measures and maintaining a low profile.  He continues
to be highly praised by academics and on Wall Street.  Also a credible
candidate to replace him in 1996 has not appeared.  </SUM>
