<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ910509-0079 WSJ910723-0081
WSJ911002-0141 WSJ911106-0050 WSJ910716-0009 WSJ910912-0105
WSJ911004-0092 WSJ910717-0134 WSJ910918-0146 WSJ911004-0218>
The U.S. Senate approved the nomination of Robert Gates as Director of
the Central Intelligence Agency in November 1991 after four months of
hearings by the Senate Intelligence Committee. Democrats were
concerned that as deputy director Gates had failed to oversee what was
happening in the agency and pressured analysts to skew intelligence to
suit Reagan administration priorities.

Problems arose concerning whether Gates knew about the diversion of
profits from Iranian arms sales to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua,
known as the Iran-Contra scandal, before it became public, rekindling
the sense of betrayal Congress felt when the Iran-Contra affair first
erupted in the fall of 1986. Gates denied having prior knowledge
although evidence suggested he did, based on meetings he attended
where related matters were discussed and his position as William
Casey's deputy.

Gates was also accused of exerting pressure on analysts to skew
intelligence reports to suit Casey's anti-Soviet bias, of overstating
the impact of US weaponry given to Afghan guerrillas to fight the
Soviets, and was of being slow to recognize changes in the Soviet
Union in the mid-1980s.

Support for Gates within CIA was split. Some listeners doubted Gates'
claims of forgetting key meetings, citing his brilliance and
photographic memory.
</SUM>
