
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900530-0042 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-05-30-90 1053EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>u i PM-Yeltsin 1stLd-Writethru a0563 05-30 0829</FIRST>
<SECOND>PM-Yeltsin, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0563,0850</SECOND>
<HEAD>New Russian President Negotiates Coalition Government</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts 6 grafs after 12th, `The session...' to UPDATE with
details on negotiations over coalition government. Pickup 13th, `In
Ottawa...'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ANN IMSE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Boris N. Yeltsin, the newly elected president of
the Russian republic, sat down with 130 legislators today to
negotiate the makeup of a coalition government for the largest
Soviet republic.
   Legislators said Yeltsin immediately came under pressure to
retain as Russian prime minister Alexander Vlasov, a member of the
Communist Party Politburo who had been Yeltsin's rival in Tuesday's
balloting for president.
   Yeltsin opened today's meeting in a businesslike fashion and set
only one limit, asking that one of his deputies be a woman,
legislators said.
   Yeltsin, a frequent critic of Soviet President Mikhail S.
Gorbachev and his gradual reforms, was reported to have gained the
last few votes he needed by offering to guarantee a place in his
government for other factions.
   Although most of the Russian legislators are Communist Party
members, they range from radical reformers like Yeltsin to
hard-liners unhappy with even the more modest innovations of
Gorbachev.
   Yeltsin won his new job Tuesday on the third ballot in the
Russian Congress of People's Deputies.
   Yeltsin poses a substantial challenge to Gorbachev, both through
his personal popularity and his demand that much authority be
transferred from Gorbachev's central government to the republics.
   That would greatly increase his power, since Russia is the
largest republic with 52 percent of the Soviet Union's 289 million
people and three-quarters of its land.
   The strapping, white-haired Siberian said Tuesday he would seek
reconciliation with Gorbachev and avoid confrontation with him as
long as it would not hurt Russia's interests.
   He took the first step in that direction today, meeting in the
ornate St. George's Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace with
representatives of each political faction and each ethnic region in
the Russian Federation.
   Yeltsin asked for two to three nominations for each ministerial
post in the Russian government. He said the candidates would be
presented to the full Russian Congress for confirmation starting
Thursday. It was not clear how such a system would lead to the
delicate balance of political forces and personalities typical of a
coalition government in the West.
   The session was closed to reporters after the first few minutes.
   Legislators said the talks were not aimed at parceling out
portfolios in the Council of Ministers to specific political
parties or factions.
   ``We don't really have hard political divisions like that right
now,'' explained Igor Bratishev, an economist and deputy from
Rostov-on-Don who participated in today's meeting with 130
legislators arrayed around a vast rectangle under the ornate
vaulted ceiling of St. George's Hall.
   So far, 24 legislative groups have registered, including
Yeltsin's own Democratic Russia and one called Communists of
Russia. But the majority have a narrow focus, such as ecology,
medical workers and legislators concerned with the problems of
refugees.
   The so-called ``conciliation committee'' is seeking a consensus
on candidates for prime minister and the three assistants to
Yeltsin, said Vladimir Ivanov, a legislator from Buryatia near Lake
Baikal in Siberia.
   ``People want Yeltsin to suggest Vlasov for prime minister,''
Ivanov said.
   The committee, representing each political group and each ethnic
region in the Russian Federation, is examining candidates' personal
qualifications and morale convictions, Bratishev said.
   In Ottawa, Canada, on Tuesday Gorbachev told reporters he was
``somewhat concerned'' about Yeltsin's victory but encouraged by
the new Russian president's vow to settle divisions in the Congress
and work with the Kremlin leadership.
   ``If, however, he is playing a political game, then we may be in
for a difficult time,'' Gorbachev said.
   Gorbachev, who was to arrive in Washington today for a summit
with President Bush, spent days watching the struggle for control
of the Russian Congress. He even took the floor to speak against
Yeltsin.
   Yeltsin and many Soviets said the election could help advance
reforms in the Soviet Union.
   ``It may be a blessing in disguise,'' Soviet Foreign Ministry
spokesman Gennady Gerasimov told reporters at the United Nations in
New York. ``Gorbachev has his critics from both the left and the
right, and possibly it is better to have the election of a critic
from the left.''
   Vitaly Churkin, another Foreign Ministry spokesman, said
Yeltsin's election ``might actually help Gorbachev because
Gorbachev is for radical reform, and he needs more popular support
for that.''
   Gorbachev brought Yeltsin to Moscow to head the city's Communist
Party, but the two men fell out over Yeltsin's public criticism in
1987 of the pace of reform and have been at odds ever since.
   As president of the Russian Congress, a newly created body that
holds the Russian Federation's highest government authority,
Yeltsin acts as chief executive of the republic.
   As the first president of a newly reorganized legislature, he
will play a major role in shaping his powers and duties, which as
yet are unclear.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

