
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900529-0076 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-05-29-90 1244EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>u i PM-Yeltsin 6thLd-Writethru a0544 05-29 1015</FIRST>
<SECOND>PM-Yeltsin, 6th Ld-Writethru, a0544,1044</SECOND>
<HEAD>Yeltsin Elected President Of Russia</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 9 grafs to UPDATE with Soviet officials seeing
benefit for Gorbachev in Yeltsin election. Pickup 7th, `After
the...'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CAREY GOLDBERG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Radical reformer Boris N. Yeltsin triumphed over
opposition from Mikhail S. Gorbachev to win the presidency of the
largest Soviet republic today in what he called ``Russia's social,
economic and spiritual rebirth.''
   After three hard-fought ballots in the 1,060-member Russian
Congress of People's Deputies, Yeltsin won 535, four more than the
majority he needed. Russian Premier Alexander Vlasov, received 467
ballots.
   Yeltsin now poses a substantial challenge to Gorbachev, who
retains the two most powerful jobs in the country: president of the
Soviet Union and general secretary of the Soviet Communist Party.
   However, Gennadi Gerasimov, spokesman for the Soviet Foreign
Ministry, said Yeltsin's election could strengthen Gorbachev's
campaign for economic reforms.
   ``Yeltsin's victory is an expression of general discontent with
how things are going in the Soviet Union's biggest republic,''
Gerasimov told reporters at the United Nations in New York.
   ``The Soviet Union is a democracy, so we accept what the Russian
parliament has decided. It may be a blessing in disguise. President
Gorbachev has his critics from both the left and the right, and
possibly it is better to have the election of a critic from the
left,'' he said.
   Igor Malashenko, foreign policy advisor to the Communist Party
who accompanied Gerasimov at the news conference, agreed.
   ``This victory of Yeltsin has been misinterpreted as a problem
for Gorbachev,'' Malashenko said. ``Yeltsin is also a reformer,
although he reflects concepts which are different from Gorbachev.
   ``In this respect I believe it (the election) can strengthen the
cause of reform in the Soviet Union. Today, many people blame
Gorbachev for problems and now they have another person to blame.''
   After the election result was announced in the Grand Kremlin
Palace, the burly 59-year-old Yeltsin, strode to the podium,
received warm applause and cheers from fellow lawmakers, and was
handed a bouquet of flowers.
   Yeltsin said he felt ``a certain satisfaction, but at the same
time, I have much more a feeling of responsibility at this turning
point for Russia and the country.''
   ``I pledge not to spare anything _ health or time _ to do
everything to get out of this crisis and lead Russia to better
times,'' Yeltsin said in his victory speech.
   He called the day ``the beginning of the road to Russia's
social, economic and spiritual rebirth, the way out of the crisis
and toward the blossoming of Russia as a sovereign, independent
government in the framework of our union.''
   Gorbachev actively opposed Yeltsin's election, telling the
Russian Congress last week that his platform of moving political
and economic power from central to local authorities would lead to
a ``breakup of the union.''
   The Russian Federation is by far the largest of the 15 Soviet
republics, stretching from the Baltic Sea in the west to the
Pacific Ocean in the east. It is home to one-half the country's 285
million people and includes Moscow.
   As the president of Russia, Yeltsin will have a highly visible
platform from which to wage his campaign for more radical reforms
than those pursued so far by Gorbachev.
   The victory marks an amazing comeback for Yeltsin. Less than
three years ago, he was reviled in the Soviet press, attacked by
party officials, rebuffed by his former mentor, Gorbachev, and
considered finished politically. Gorbachev had brought Yeltsin to
Moscow to head the city's Communist Party, but he was fired in 1987
after showing little reverance for party hierarchy.
   Yeltsin, however, made his rift with Gorbachev work for him.
   The popular and outspoken Yeltsin had lost the second round of
voting on Saturday by just 28 votes. He lost the first round Friday
with 497 ballots to 473 for Krasnodar regional Communist Party
chief Ivan Polozkov.
   He was nominated again Monday and faced Vlasov, who had
Gorbachev's support, and Valentin Tsoy, a little-known businessman
from the Soviet Far East, who received 11 votes.
   After his election, Yeltsin walked through the Kremlin grounds
with reporters and well-wishers. After passing through the Spassky
Gate, he was joined by more supporters.
   ``Thank you! Thank you for our future!'' one man shouted.
Yeltsin mounted the steps of an embankment below the Kremlin wall
for an impromptu speech to supporters who rushed across the
cobblestone street. To shouts of ``victory!'' Yeltsin pledged to
work for a ``renewed Russia.'' The crowd pledged support.
   ``We're prepared to go together with him into tough times.
Everyone says that,'' one crowd member, Nadezda Matveyeva said.
   During his campaign, Yeltsin called on the Congress to reject
the Kremlin's new program for gradually transforming the country's
crippled, centrally planned economy to a partial market economy.
   ``The Congress must take the citizens of Russia under its
defense,'' he said. The reform program, which would triple the
price of bread on July 1 and double the cost of other foodstuffs
starting Jan. 1, caused panic buying that prompted Moscow city
authorities to bar sales to non-residents of the capital.
   Gorbachev, who left Moscow today for a Washington summit, went
on national television Sunday night to try to calm fears. But
anxiety is high and the list of items being rationed is on the rise.
   Yeltsin has broadly outlined a plan that would more rapidly seek
a transition to a market-based economy, giving more freedom to
enterprises and entrepreneurs.
   Lawmakers said Monday they believed Yeltsin's offer of a
coalition government in the republic bolstered his chances to win
today's round.
   Discontent over the government's economic program also boosted
Yeltsin's campaign, said one of his backers, lawmaker Leonid
Gurevich of Murmansk.
   Some economists have estimated that up to 40 million people
could lose their jobs as a result of the central government's
reforms, expected to drive many inefficient businesses into
bankruptcy.
   Under the three-step reform plan, to be implemented through
1995, 60 percent of state enterprises would be sold to the public
sector, and controls would be lifted on 60 percent of prices.

</TEXT>
</DOC>

