<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA042490-0142 LA051190-0185 AP900511-0159 AP900424-0035 LA042790-0205
AP900512-0038 AP900419-0121 WSJ910529-0003 LA042190-0060 AP900426-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

The public has always demonstrated interest in Elizabeth Taylor's
activities. This still holds true even though her Hollywood career is
on the wane. Her seven marriages to six men have been sensationalized,
and the public is interested in her four children.  Her health has
been an issue since 1945 when she fell from a horse during the filming
of "National Velvet". She suffered recurring back problems, and
underwent several operations. She developed a dependence on
pain-killing drugs.

In 1961 pneumonia nearly killed her. Her battles with alcohol and
over-eating are as well known as her Oscar-winning performances. She
twice underwent treatment for addiction to painkillers.  The
hospitalization that started on April 9, 1990i and continued through
May demonstrated Taylor's hold on the public's attention.  She was
admitted to Marina Hospital, but was transferred to the intensive care
unit at St. John's when her pneumonia was diagnosed.  She was near
death on April 22nd. While recovering, she developed bacterial
pneumonia and a blood infection that kept her hospitalized another six
weeks. There were rumors that she had AIDS.  The National Enquirer
reported that Taylor was drinking heavily while hospitalized.  She
sued and received a cash settlement.</SUM>
