<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900419-0121"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

A sinus infection caused Elizabeth Taylor to be hospitalized on 9
April. She was admitted to the Daniel Freeman Marine Hospital in Santa
Monica, but yesterday she was transferred to St. John's Hospital and
Health Center because of a persistent fever and pneumonia. She is
being treated intravenously with antibiotics. Calls to the hospital
are being referred to the New York City firm that handles Ms. Taylor's
public relations. A spokeswoman there said only that Taylor's
condition had stabilized. The actress said that she had been advised
to remain in the hospital, and that she expected a full
recovery.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042190-0060"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The Los Angeles District Attorney's office has declined to press
charges against several doctors who had allegedly over-prescribed
painkillers for Elizabeth Taylor. The announcement came Friday as the
investigation into the charges ended. The District Attorney's office
said that the prescribing procedures fell below the accepted medical
standard, but refused to charge the physicians with criminal
intent. The report said that one doctor had repeatedly tried to
convince Ms. Taylor to enter a rehabilitation center.  Taylor rejected
that, but eventually acknowledged a 35-year addiction to pills and
alcohol, and entered the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900424-0035"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Elizabeth Taylor was moved into intensive care at St John's Hospital
on Friday. Hospital officials said that her condition was stabilizing
after a biopsy was taken to determine the cause of the severe
pneumonia. She has been put on a ventilator to assist her breathing.
Her doctors said that she was seriously ill, but that they were
pleased with her progress. A spokeswoman said that her family was with
her, but that too much should not be read into that, and that
Ms. Taylor was not on her deathbed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042490-0142"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Elizabeth Taylor underwent a lung biopsy on Monday to further
determine the cause of her pneumonia. A prominent pulmonary specialist
who is not involved in caring for Ms.  Taylor said that the taking of
a biopsy was a prudent measure and one that will guide her doctors in
setting the course of her therapy. Taylor is now 58 years old. In 1961
she suffered a near-fatal bout with pneumonia. The same pulmonary
specialist cited above said that her history suggests that there may
be a basic problem with her lung structure or function.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900426-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Elizabeth Taylor has recovered from a life-threatening case of
pneumonia. A lung specialist treating her said her life was in danger
over the weekend, and that she is over the worst but she is not yet
"out of the woods". There have been consistent rumors about AIDS, but
her doctors said that there is nothing to suggest AIDS or cancer. The
actress had earlier denied that she had AIDS. Marie Burton-Carson,
Liza Todd-Tivey, and Christopher and Michael Wilding, her four
children from three marriages, have been with her.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042790-0205"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Liz Taylor has been plagued by health woes since 1945 when she fell
from a horse during the filming of "National Velvet". She has endured
about 20 major operations on her back, appendix, eyes and
teeth. Respiratory ailments have been a recurring problem. She has
survived seven rocky marriages to six men, and addictions to alcohol,
painkillers and food. In 1983 and again in 1988 she underwent
addiction treatment at the Betty Ford Clinic Her many setbacks have
added to her stardom, and she has never attracted more attention than
she has been getting during her current hospitalization.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051190-0185"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Elizabeth Taylor has been hospitalized for over four weeks. There are
new complications in her case that will keep her in St John's Hospital
and Health Center for another six weeks. She was recovering nicely
from the viral pneumonia that had put her life in danger, but now has
contracted a bacterial pneumonia, a strain that is considered much
less serious than viral because antibiotics are effective against
bacteria but not against viruses. She has also developed a blood
infection known as yeast, and will remain in the hospital for
intravenous therapy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900511-0159"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Earlier this week Elizabeth Taylor's publicist said that the
Oscar-winning actress was improving and would soon be released from
the hospital. Ms. Taylor won Oscars for her performances in
"Butterfield 8" and "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?". Since that
announcement recovery of the actress was dealt a setback when she
contracted bacterial pneumonia and developed a yeast infection that
will keep her hospitalized for another six weeks. She is now occupying
one of the hospital's suites. Her four children have visited her
throughout her hospitalization. Michael Jackson has also paid a
visit.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900512-0038"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Doctors treating Elizabeth Taylor said on Friday that her steady
recovery from viral pneumonia had been interrupted by bacterial
pneumonia and a yeast infection. The actress was admitted to Daniel
Freeman Marina Hospital on April 9th, suffering from a severe sinus
infection. She was transferred to St. John's Hospital and Health
Center when her condition deteriorated. Doctors later revealed that
she was near death on April 22nd.  The secondary bacterial pneumonia
often follows viral pneumonia. Her condition is now improving bur she
is expected to remain in the hospital for some time.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910529-0003"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Actress Elizabeth Taylor and the National Enquirer have reached a
settlement of Ms.  Taylor's lawsuit against the tabloid. Taylor sought
damages of 20 million dollars for two articles published by the
Enquirer in June 1990 that reported on Taylor's medical problems and
her drinking when pneumonia caused her lengthy
hospitalization. Neither side discussed the terms of the agreement,
but Taylor's attorney said it was large enough that a trial should not
be pursued. The tabloid also apologized, saying that after seeing all
of Taylor's medical records, it was evident that inaccurate
information had been published. Taylor said that she felt "completely
vindicated".</SUM>
