<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880318-0051"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Earlier today the sun was blacked out by the shadow of the moon for up
to four minutes along a 108-mile swath that moved from the Indian
Ocean across Indonesia and the southern Philippine Island of
Mindanao. The eclipse was partial across a wide area of Asia and parts
of Australia. Natives danced, banged drums and participated in other
traditional activities in celebration of the phenomenon. Despite some
cloud cover, scientists were able to take pictures of the
eclipse. Eclipses occur when the moon is positioned between the earth
and the sun. The Chinese first recorded an eclipse in 2137 B.C.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890307-0150"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

A partial solar eclipse on Tuesday was visible across western North
America. It was visible to some extent, but barely so, in locations
from Mazatlan, Mexico to Chicago.  Eighty percent of the sun was
eclipsed in Anchorage, Alaska at 9 A.M. Those viewing the eclipse
through telescopes at CALTECH in Pasadena were able to see gas jets on
the sun's surface, and a giant group of sunspots. Total solar eclipses
are visible from any single location on the earth's surface roughly
once every 400 years, though they are seen at least once every two
years from somewhere on the earth.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890316-0018"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Dutch scientists have examined a clay tablet found in the ruins of
Ugarit, an ancient in Syria, and have concluded that the solar
eclipses recorded thereon occurred in 1223 B.C.  The tablet's text
apparently indicated that Mars was visible when the eclipse occurred,
and the scientists say that means the 1223 date is correct. The tablet
was found twenty years ago and at that time experts had misread the
text and set the occurrence of the eclipse in 1375 B.C. The tablet
would still be the oldest known reliable account of a total solar
eclipse.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900721-0110"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The total eclipse on Saturday will be visible in an arc about 125
miles wide from the Northern Baltic Sea and Southeast Finland across
the Kola Peninsula and Northeast Soviet Union to the Aleutian
Islands. The Finns are excitedly preparing to view the
eclipse. Joensuu, 300 miles northeast of Helsinki, will be the best
viewing location.  An "eclipse secretary" has been appointed to handle
preparations in Joensuu. Finnair, the national airline, has arranged a
dozen special flights for eclipse viewers. Scientists will conduct
gravity test measurements of the radius of the sun during the
eclipse.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901231-0012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The "solar eclipse of the century" is still six months away, but
Mexico's preparations are at full speed. A cabinet-level commission,
"eclipse 1991", has been named to handle preparations. Most hotels are
sold out. Four ships will act as floating hotels. The 165 mile-wide
eclipse path will reach from Hawaii through Mexico to Brazil, and pass
through one of the world's most populous regions. It will last seven
minutes, the maximum length for a total solar eclipse. An eclipse is
illusionary. The sun is 400 times larger than the moon, but it seems
to cover the moon because it is 400 times closer to earth.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06161012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The big island of Hawaii and the southern part of Mexico's Baja
Peninsula are being touted as the best viewing areas for the July 11
eclipse. Statistics indicate that they offer the best chance of
cloudless skies. The largest cities in Mexico, Guadalajara and Mexico
City, will also be in the path of total eclipse. The eclipse will also
be visible from much of western North and South America, but only a
small swath of the continents will see a total blackout of the
sun. Would-be viewers who want to go to Mexico or Hawaii are having a
hard time arranging travel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06189077"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Thursday's eclipse will consist of a 160 mile-wide lunar shadow that
will reach speeds of up to 5000 miles per hour as it races along the
earth's surface. Preparations for an influx of visitors are at a fever
pitch in Hawaii and Mexico, both prime viewing areas. Forty- eight
thousand tourists are expected in Hawaii. Even larger crowds are
expected in Mexico because of its proximity to California, and because
the eclipse will last seven minutes there and only four minutes in
Hawaii. It will be 2122 before the world sees a total eclipse as long
lasting as will be seen in Mexico.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191174"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Most total eclipses get little attention because they occur over
isolated areas. Thursday's eclipse will be different. It will be one
of the longest lasting in this century, and it will put more people in
the moon's shadow than any prior eclipse, and it will pass over one of
the largest clusters of astronomical laboratories, affording
opportunity for serious study.  Spectroscopic evidence of the presence
of helium in the sun was observed during an eclipse in 1868. During a
1919 eclipse astronomers noted the movement of a star that was the
first confirmation of Einstein's theory that the path of light is bent
by gravity.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06192123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Residents of California's Bay Area were busy looking for eyeshades
that would allow them to view tomorrow's eclipse in safety. Local
planetariums and observatories were deluged with requests for viewing
sessions even though the Bay Area will see only a 63 percent
eclipse. The serious eclipse viewers had booked flights months, or
even years ago. Guatemala provided an example of a different manner of
preparation. There an eclipse is a cause for great and noisy
celebration. Townspeople burn incense, ring church bells and wave
tools to scare away the mythical gargantuan bat they believe obscures
the sun.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193235"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Today's eclipse will begin in San Jose at 10:10 A.M., peak at 11:20
A.M. and end at 12:34 P.M. In this area only about half of the sun's
diameter will be blacked out by the moon. The sun will be totally
eclipsed in Hawaii and Mexico. The next major eclipse will not occur
until the middle of the 22nd century. Experts have warned the public
not to look at the eclipse without special glasses to safeguard the
eyes. Failure to heed those warnings could cause burning of the
retina, and permanent damage to the eyes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193081"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

From Hawaii to Mexico and on to Central America more that 40 million
people saw the moon totally darken the sun. When the eclipse was at
its height, the Mauna Loa volcano erupted for the first time in six
tears, and released a dazzling display of lava. High cirrus clouds
caused the failure of three of the ten experiments carried out in the
observatory on top of 13,800 foot Mauna Kee. High cloud cover dimmed
the view in some areas, but those who got a good look marveled at the
celestial display.</SUM>
