<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="WSJ910107-0139 FBIS3-41815 FT921-9310 LA042290-0104
LA060490-0083 AP900322-0200 FT941-575 FBIS4-45908 FT933-8272
FT931-3883 FT941-1547"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

The disease that affects cows, eating holes in their brains and in its
later stages causing them to act crazily is known as "mad cow
disease". Its more formal name is Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, or
BSE. Scrapie is a similar disease that affects sheep, it has been
around since the 1700s. The cow disease was first diagnosed in
1986. It proliferated, and despite the 1988 ban on a processed cattle
feed that included the remains of diseased sheep, the incidence of BSE
continued apace. By 1994 about 122,000 "mad" cows had been destroyed
in Britain. The government paid farmers 100% of market value for each
cow destroyed. The 3.7 billion-dollar British beef industry was
threatened by import bans imposed by other countries against British
beef. Strains of BSE were seen in other animal species. The British
public was highly concerned of its spread to humans. A rare human
disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob or CJD, has symptoms similar to BSE. The
1993 deaths of two British dairy farmers who had CJD caused alarm. No
firm link between CJD and BSE has been proven, bur researchers in
America, Czechoslovakia and Germany are studying the connection, if
any, between the diseases.</SUM>
