<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy or BSE is commonly known as "mad cow
disease".  The disease was first diagnosed in 1986, and exhibits
symptoms to those of scrapie, a sheep disease that has been seen in
England since the 1700s. The incurable disease eats holes in the
brains of its victims, and in its later stages causes the animals to
act skittish or stagger drunkenly. As of February this year the
British government had ordered the destruction of 10,000 cattle, and
had spent the equivalent of 6.1 million dollars to compensate the
owners of the destroyed animals.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042290-0104"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Ten thousand cattle have been killed in Britain in an attempt to limit
the spread of the "mad cow disease". Experts suspect that the disease
is spread through cattle feed that contains sheep by-products that are
used as protein supplement. In June 1988 the government banned the use
of sheep offal in cattle feed, but new cases of the disease are still
being reported. The government contends that the disease poses no
threat to humans.  The United States and several other countries have
banned the importation of British beef.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA060490-0083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The enigmatic brain disorder known as "mad cow disease" is causing
friction among European trading partners, and is threatening the 3.7
billion dollar British beef industry.  The British government insists
that the disease is not a threat to humans, but consumers are not
buying that argument. The British press has been making a big deal of
the Ministry of Agriculture's report that a Siamese cat had died of a
disease similar to "mad cow", saying that it proved that other
species, including humans, were vulnerable. West Germany and France
have banned the import of British beef.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910107-0139"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Researchers at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland
are studying the human version of spongiform encephalopathy known as
Creutzfeldt-Jakob, or CJD.  Scientists had agreed that the spongiform
disease found in sheep and that found in cattle probably posed no
threat to humans. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease has been rare, but they
have been confounded by the relatively large outbreak of CJD in an
area of Slovakia where most people raise and care for sheep. The
British are intensely interested in anything that links humans to the
animal form of the spongiform disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-9310"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The condition known in cattle as "mad cow disease", spongiform
encephalopathy, has shown up in Britain's sparsely scattered antelope
population. Over the past three years the disease has been diagnosed
in three elands, three kudu and an Arabian oryx. Since 1989 the
condition has also shown up in 34 cats and 29 goats. Only 348 cases of
sheep encephalopathy, or scrapie, were reported in 1990, as contrasted
with 894 cases in 1991. Since 1992 the British government has been
encouraging the reporting of scrapie to aid in the spongiform
encephalopathy research.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-3883"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

It was reported this week that a dairy farmer, Mr. Peter Warhurst,
died last year of Creutzfeldt Jakob disease. Mr. Warhurst's herd had a
case of "mad cow disease", or BSE, in 1989. Both BSE and CJD are
caused by mysterious particles of infectious protein called prions The
British government maintains that beef can be eaten safely, and that
there is no causal link between BSE and CJD. The death of the dairy
farmer and the continued rise in the number of cases of BSE has fueled
the growing public anxiety surrounding bovine encephalopathy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8272"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

New cases of mad cow disease", or BSE, are still being reported at a
rate of about 1000 per week. Last month a second dairy farmer,
Mr. Duncan Templeman, succumbed to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a human
brain ailment similar to BSE. The new cases and the deaths of two
dairy farmers have prompted a new wave of public criticism of the
government officials who stoutly maintain that there is no evidence
that BSE contributed to the deaths. The government still insists that
scrapie-contaminated feed is the cause of the reported cases of
BSE.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41815"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The London zoo's small herd of kudu has been hit by a strain of the
"mad cow disease".  Five of the eight kudu born at the zoo since 1987
have contracted the disease. Only one of the five could have eaten
feed that contained sheep protein. Such contaminated food has been
identified as the source of the disease in cattle. The disease has
also been found in domestic cats, and in the larger cheetah and
puma. Scientists at the zoo feel the outbreak in the kudu herd shows
some species are more vulnerable than others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-35908"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Germany has asked the European community to sanction Germany's ban on
British beef imports, claiming that the request is justified because
of the potentially grave health risks.  As of last week 121,898 cattle
in Britain had been diagnosed with "mad cow disease".  Over 8,000
cattle have died of the disease even though they were born after the
government had banned the processed feed suspected to be the source of
the disease.  Even with those discouraging numbers, and evidence the
disease has spread to other species, Britain maintains it is no threat
to humans, and that the German request is frivolous.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1547"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Seven universities and research institutes in Germany have been
commissioned to examine possible connections between the origins of
"mad cow disease" and two human diseases. Those diseases,
Creutzfeldt-Jakob and Gerstmann Straussare are rarely seen, but the
German government is trying to convince the European Union that
Germany should be allowed to ban the import of British beef. More than
100,000 cattle in Britain have died after contracting the "mad cow
disease". Fifty cases have been reported in Switzerland, and two in
Germany, one of which affected a cow imported from Britain.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-575"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Tomorrow the Health Ministers of the European Union will consider
Germany's request to ban British beef exports because of the fear of
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, or BSE, commonly known as "mad cow
disease". The United Kingdom feels that the ban on export of live
cattle and of the offspring of BSE-affected cows that has been in
effect since 1990 is working well.  That ban, plus other restrictions,
in addition to the lack of firm scientific evidence of a link between
BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease that affects humans make the British
confident that The European Union will deny Germany's request.</SUM>
