<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06267062 AP890515-0232 AP900912-0061 SJMN91-06317223
SJMN91-06270171 AP900719-0204 AP891122-0190 SJMN91-06271061"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
    
Biosphere II, a $30-million project, sponsored by Texas Financier
Edwin Bass, was to serve as a prototype for sustaining life outside
the earth.  It was a 3.15-acre airtight geodesic framed glass and
steel dome in the foothills of Arizona's Santa Clara Range.

In December 1990, four men and four women were locked into Biosphere
II for two years.  They were highly motivated and had the latest
gadgets--telephones, television, VCRs, and computers.  It health or
family emergencies necessitated, they could leave through airlocks.
The Biosphere consisted of several climatic zones with plant and
animal species, apartments, laboratory, office, and recreational
facilities.  Each member would work on his or her respective
ecosystems, spending about four hours daily on farming and chores to
maintain machinery.  They would recycle the air, water, and waste, and
lived off a half-acre of land and plants grown in tanks of water fused
with nutrients.

There was a great deal of skepticism about the credibility and
usefulness of the experiment.  Critics had contended that there was
more showmanship and cultism than science.  Biosphere officials
countered by pointing to 50 design patents in the works.  They also
claimed it was a business--Arizona's second largest tourist attraction
after the Grand Canyon.  </SUM>
