<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06267062 AP890515-0232 AP900912-0061 SJMN91-06317223
SJMN91-06270171 AP900719-0204 AP891122-0190 SJMN91-06271061"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">
    
A botanist exited Thanksgiving afternoon in 1989 after spending 21
days inside an airtight, 17,800-cubic foot glass and steel structure,
a test module for Biosphere II, a $30 million project sponsored by
Texas Financier Edwin Bass.  It resembled a space colony tethered to
earth (Biosphere I) and served as a prototype for sustaining life
outside the earth.

Biosphere II was a 3.15-acre airtight geodesic framed glass and steel
domed Garden of Eden in the foothills of Arizona's Santa Clara Range.
Beginning in December 1990, eight people--four men and four women--all
were locked into the Biosphere for two years.  According to
predictions, the crew would do exceedingly well.  They were highly
motivated and had more options than normally encountered in classical
isolation experiences.  They had the latest gadgets --radio
teleconferencing, telephones, television, VCRs, and computers.  There
were ecological regions including a human habitat of apartments,
laboratory, office, and recreational facilities.  Members could get
away and stargaze from their own environment and could leave through
airlocks if health or family emergencies necessitated.  The biggest
problem expected was overwork.

Biosphere consisted of several climatic zones--rainforest, savanna,
ocean, and marsh--and was packed with 3,800 plant and animal species.
It was built on a hill to take advantage of the natural proclivity of
water.  A stream began on an 85-foot mountain that dominated the
rainforest.  It then flowed through the plains and grasslands of the
savanna, down the 25-foot deep ocean with its coral reef, and then to
the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up before it reached the
deserts.  Water-laden air was drawn, then climbed the mountains, and
natural cooling and condensing soils brought it down as rain and dew
to feed the stream again.

Each member would work on his or her respective ecosystem.  They would
spend about four hours daily on farming and chores for maintaining
machinery driving the Biosphere.  They would recycle the air, water,
and waste and live off a half-acre of land and plants grown in tanks
of water fused with nutrients.

There was a great deal of skepticism about the credibility and
usefulness of the experiment.  Critics had contended there was more
showmanship and cultism than science.  Biosphere officials countered
by pointing to 50 design patents in the works.  They also claimed it
was a business, Arizona's second largest tourist attraction after the
Grand Canyon, and was meant to show ways of responding to
environmental problems; e.g., pollution.  </SUM>
