<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06271061"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
    
After years of preparation, four men and four women Thursday shut the
door on the world they hope to aid and began two years of ecological
research in Biosphere II, an airtight, three-acre structure of glass
and steel that has stirred controversy as well as awe.  At midmorning,
the eight told project officials they were about to begin work on
their respective "biome" or ecosystem.  They will recycle their air,
water and waste, and live off a half-acre of land and plants grown in
tanks of water fused with nutrients, seeking possibilities of living
in artificial atmospheres in outer space.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900719-0204"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   
   
What will happen when the four-man and four-woman crew is locked in
the Biosphere II in the testing to duplicate the Earth's ecology?  How
are they going to react performing their tests and in getting along
with each other?  Exceedingly well, according to predictions.  They
are highly motivated and have more options than normally encountered
in classical isolation experiences.  They have the latest gadgets:
video teleconferencing, telephones, television, VCRs, and computers.
They will be able to get away and stargaze from their own environment.
Members can leave through airlocks if health or family emergencies
necessitate.  The biggest problem may be overwork.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891122-0190"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">    
  
Botanist Linda Leigh will exit Thanksgiving afternoon from 21 days
inside an airtight, 17,000 cubic foot glass and steel structure, a
test module for Biosphere II, a $30 million project under
construction.  Eight people will be placed inside a much larger sealed
structure for two years to determine whether humans can duplicate
Earth's life systems for possible use in space.  She says the only
thing she misses is companionship, but she is otherwise content being
in frequent contact with the outside support team by telephone, video,
radio, and just looking through the glass window.  Daily medical
checks have shown her health is unbelievably positive.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="APP890515-0232"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Biosphere II is built on a hill to take advantage of the natural
proclivity of water.  A stream begins on an 85-foot mountain that
dominates the rainforest.  It then flows through the plains and
grasslands of the savanna, down to the 25-foot deep ocean with its
coral reef, and then to the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up
before it reaches the deserts.  Water-laden air is drawn, climbs the
mountains, and natural cooling and condensing coils bring it down as
rain and dew to feed the stream again.  The project scientists and
engineers were highly innovative in coordinating the environments.</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06270171"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">    
  
At 8:18 am, the four-man and four-woman crew stepped inside the 3.15
acre geodesic- framed compound, Biosphere II, for a two-year test of
space colonization technology.  Biosphere II consists of several
climatic zones--rain forest, savanna, ocean and marsh-- packed with
3,800 plant and animal species.  Communications apparatus connects the
crew with a control station a few hundred yards away.  Each member
will spend about four hours daily on farming and chores for
maintaining machinery driving the Biosphere.  Problems could crop up
after a month or so that would require the crew to leave temporarily
before returning for a solid two years.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06267062"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">    
  
Biosphere II, a domed glass and steel Garden of Eden in the foothills
of Arizona's Santa Catalina range, will begin an experiment on
Thursday in a biological maze where plants will recycle human wastes
and turn them into the sustenance of life--air, food, and water.  At
the least, it is intended to help improve life on Earth.  There is a
great deal of skepticism about the credibility and usefulness of the
experiment.  Biosphere officials counter by pointing to 50 design
patents in the works.  They also claim it is a business-- Arizona's
second largest tourist attraction after the Grand Canyon.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06317223"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
    
Critics have long contended that the Biosphere II project in the
Arizona desert was more showmanship and cultism than science, despite
its assertions to the contrary.  Allegations of misrepresentation
involve a device that removes carbon dioxide from the air and turns it
into a solid for storage inside the Biosphere.  A newspaper states the
group secretly installed the device, violating the goal of recycling
all materials naturally.  A Biosphere spokesman said the group had
installed a carbon dioxide remover but called it a minor aid for
initial stabilization, adding there was no obligation to disclose all
details of work in progress.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900912-0061"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     
 
Four men and four women were picked today to spend two years inside a
two-acre sealed dome intended to be a microcosm of Earth.  Known as
Biosphere II, the giant terrarium aims for a December start.  It will
resemble a space colony tethered to Earth (Biosphere I) and serve as a
prototype for sustaining life outside the Earth.  The crew's world
inside will consist of seven ecological regions including a human
habitat of apartments, laboratory, office, and recreational
facilities.  Sponsored by Texas Financier Edwin Bass, the experiment
is meant to show ways of responding to environmental problems; e.g.,
pollution.  </SUM>
