<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910528-0127 WSJ910624-0157 WSJ911211-0079
WSJ920210-0112 WSJ910606-0061 WSJ910628-0089 WSJ920108-0155 WSJ910620-0161
WSJ910924-0116 WSJ920115-0046>
With over 30 million citizens un-insured and with costs skyrocketing,
there seems to be consensus among Americans that our health-care
system is in need of reform.  Last year over $660 billion, amounting
to approximately 12% of the gross national product, was spent on
health-care.  If we do nothing, it is predicted that costs will soon
climb to 14% of GNP and the number of un-insured will rise. The
federal government currently controls approximately 42% of the
nation's health- care costs through the Medicare and Medicaid
programs.

Health-care reform has emerged as a hot political issue but our
political parties differ greatly on a possible remedy.  With the
Presidential campaign now underway, both parties are staking out their
positions.

Democrats claim we will have reform legislation enacted before the end
of the year.  Within the Democratic Party, Presidential candidates
Senator Kerrey of Nebraska and Tsongas of Massachusetts have
formulated specific plans for reform.  Other Democratic candidates
have not.  Two Democratic Party plans currently hold sway.  The first
is a federally controlled, Canadian style national health-care system.
Everyone would receive government paid benefits.  This, however, would
not be full-blown socialized medicine.  Everyone could choose his own
private provider.  But the government would control the providers fees
and total health-care costs.  The second Democratic plan, referred to
as "play or pay", would require all employers to either provide basic
health-care benefits for employees or pay a tax to enable the federal
government to provide those benefits to the un-insured.

Republicans have been slower to react to calls for reform.  Their
long-standing philosophy has been that our health-care system should
remain mostly private and market based.  Further, they believe that
all Democratic Party plans voiced thus far are too complex or too
expensive.  The Bush Administration's position is that reform should
not be structural or dramatic.  Rather, multi-faceted, incremental
improvements based on free market, competitive mechanisms and
governmental tax incentives and tax credits to encourage change is the
only politically acceptable route.  Nevertheless, the administration
has proposed a $110 billion plan to assist small businesses in
providing coverage to employees.  Many entrepreneurs like certain
aspects of the proposal, however, many feel it falls short in their
primary area of concern -- cost containment.

All politicians recognize our health-care problems are a major
political issue, but, due to differing views on possible solutions
both within and among political parties, it is difficult to determine
if reform will occur anytime soon.  

</SUM>






















































