<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP890914-0207 FT921-3939 FT921-8958 SJMN91-06134118
FT921-6336 FBIS4-23474 FT921-2956 FT922-10715"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 
 
The recent history of Africa is replete with stories of drought and
resultant famines.  This history is continuing at the present time
with more than 27 million inhabitants facing starvation; millions have
died.

The hunger problem has been made more difficult with some governments
refusing food relief for portions of their countries under rebel
control.  Some African military forces have seized relief supplies.

Donor countries are having difficulty keeping up with African relief
while continuing to assist other countries with disaster supplies.

Experts are being sent to Africa to assess the effects of drought.

Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Zambia and South Africa are considered to be in
the most serious condition.  Other countries afflicted with starvation
are: Sudan, Ethiopia, Somalia, Djibouti and Malawi.  The latter has
not yet recovered from the 1991-92 drought.  Malawi now requires food
imports for three million of its people.

Malawi did not have any problems in distributing imported food such as
occurred in other countries during the previous famine.

In South Africa, extensive drought could affect its grain production.

South Africa's older generation remember the drought of 1992 as being
the worst since 1933.  Especially hard hit are the farmers who produce
South Africa's main crop, maize.  In 1933, conditions were so extreme
that the drought forced many farmers off their land.  The state says
that this will not be repeated.

South Africa's minister of agriculture is also a farmer. He is trying
to convince his fellow farmers to continue his program of political
reform and adopt his own farming techniques which are better suited to
drought conditions.

In Zimbabwe, farmers are totaling the losses resulting in the worst
drought they have ever experienced.  Rainfall in 1992 has been less
than half the normal amount.

Maize, a staple crop is about 90 percent less than normal.  Soybeans,
winter wheat and cotton crops are fractions of their usual totals.
Zimbabwe needs 350 million dollars worth of imported food.

Water shortages due to the drought are having a serious effect on
electric power production in Africa.

According to 1988 African Prize for Leadership winner President Quett
Masire of Botswana, industrial nations can assist in relieving
Africa's drought by making a greater effort at reducing global
warming.  Dr. Bernard Ouedraogo, the co-winner, was cited for his
organization of peasants in nine African countries.  His techniques
greatly improved crop raising, anti-erosion methods, forest renewal
and health care.  </SUM>
