<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06212161"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

Hispanics in the United States are two to three times more likely to
develop diabetes than the general population.  Heredity and diet seem
to be important factors in a disease that affects 14- 21% of Hispanics
and up to 40% of those 64 to 75 years of age, compared to 7% of all
Americans.

Heredity, a high fat diet and obesity are predisposing factors,
especially in those with American Indian ancestry.

Management includes diet, exercise and medication.

The St. Louis Health Center in Morgan Hill, California is sponsoring a
diabetes management program for Hispanic diabetics.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101289-0194"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

One in eight Latino adults in the LA area have diabetes, a higher
incidence than in any other ethnic group except American Indians.
Nationwide estimates are that more than two million Latinos are
diabetic.  An educational effort is underway in California.

Adult onset diabetes is preventable by diet and exercise, and obesity
is a predisposing factor.  It is believed that Latino immigrants
frequently eat a fast or fatty food diet and exercise less, causing
obesity and, frequently, diabetes, according to the Diabetes
Association, which is sponsoring education programs including
information on prevention, symptoms and complications of the
disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881126-0007"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Scientists have found a hormone that may lead to new treatments for
Type II diabetes.  News of the hormone, Amylin, was reported by
Dr. Garth Cooper of New Zealand to the International Diabetes
Federation.

Researchers believe that amylin, found in high levels in the diabetic
pancreas, appears to be responsible for the obesity and lower insulin
secretion and effectiveness found in Type II diabetics.  Obesity is
currently thought of as a cause, not an effect of, diabetes.

Insulin normally controls blood sugar; in type II diabetes it becomes
ineffective and blood sugar rises.  Complications include kidney
disease, blindness, and gangrene of the extremities.

Researchers hope to develop substances that block amylin's
action.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06136305"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Health Professionals and the Diabetes Society in California are
presenting a program to educate Hispanics in healthy food preparation
and diabetes prevention.  Food preparation, specifically frying of
foods in saturated fats, are believed to be one cause of the obesity
problem that often leads to diabetes.  Other factors stressed are
nutrition, spacing of food intake throughout the day, and exercise.
This is the first time education has centered on prevention of the
disease.

Educators in California and other heavily Hispanic areas are learning
that cultural factors are highly important in combating the alarming
rise of diabetes among this population.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890313-0198"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Twelve million Americans have diabetes but the incidence is highest in
minorities - Native Americans, Hispanics and blacks.  Hispanics are
three times as likely to develop diabetes as the general population;
40% of the 700,000 victims in Texas are Mexican-Americans.  San
Antonio (50% Hispanic) is the center of diabetes investigation, at the
University of Texas Health Center, which has attracted a team of
investigators from Yale.

Researchers are reaching out to the population by taking a mobile
home, equipped to test for the disease, out to city neighborhoods.

Ultimately they hope to locate a gene presidposing to the disease,
which might lead to a screening test.

They believe that poor hispanics' diet, lack of exercise and medical
care increases the risk.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890314-0237"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

San Antonio, Texas, with a 50% Hispanic population, has become a
center for the study of diabetes in Hispanics.  Dr. Ralph DeFronzo
left his diabetes research center at Yale University to relocate to
the University of Texas at San Antonio to study the local population.

His researchers are reaching out in a mobile home which roams the
neighborhoods and tests inhabitants for the disease.

Dr. DeFronzo's researchers believe that poor Hispanics' diet of cheap
processed foods, their lack of exercise and infrequent medical
attention are the root causes of their predisposition.  They believe
education of children may be critical.</SUM>
