
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ911213-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
911213-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Jury
   Indicts Keating
   And Associates
   ---
   SEC Also Files Civil Charges
   Alleging Insider Trading
   By Ex-Thrift Operator
   ----
   By Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/13/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   DLP X-AMC
</CO>
<MS>
FINANCIAL (FIN)
</MS>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT (RGU)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS (SAL)
</IN>
<NS>
BANKRUPTCY DECLARATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS (BCY)
INSIDER TRADING (ISD)
LAW &amp; LEGAL ISSUES AND LEGISLATION (LAW)
SECURITIES REGULATION (RGU)
</NS>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<RE>
ARIZONA (AZ)
CALIFORNIA (CA)
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
PACIFIC RIM (PRM)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A federal grand jury indicted Charles H.
Keating Jr. on fraud and racketeering charges, claiming the
nation's largest thrift failure resulted from calculated
looting by its principals.
   The 77-count indictment against the former American
Continental Corp. chairman and four former associates came
the same day the Securities and Exchange Commission accused
Mr. Keating and nine others of insider trading and fraud in a
civil lawsuit. The SEC also named David Paul, former chairman
and chief executive of CenTrust Savings Bank, in the first
case that charges both men, who have come to symbolize the
excesses that led to the thrift debacle. CenTrust, based in
Miami, is now defunct.
                                                                                                       

   Yesterday's federal indictment against Mr. Keating, who
was convicted just last week on narrower state securities
fraud charges, centered on five separate racketeering
schemes.
   At the crux of the government's case was an alleged system
of land swaps that created phony profits for American
Continental and its Lincoln Savings and Loan Association
unit. The government also charged that Mr. Keating and the
others siphoned off $975,000 from the company for their
personal use, even as American Continental prepared in 1989
to seek bankruptcy-law protection.
   Prosecutors charged that at American Continental, "the
purpose of the pattern of racketeering activity was to obtain
money from and through Lincoln, for the use and benefit of
the {defendants} and certain of their associates and family
members."
   Additionally, federal prosecutors accused Mr. Keating and
the others of deceiving buyers of about $200 million of
American Continental bonds. The defendants conveyed "flatly
inconsistent stories about ACC's financial prospects" to
purchasers of senior and subordinated notes, the indictment
said.
   Under the scheme described by the government, the
defendants tried to convince buyers of senior notes to sell
them back to the company at a discount, telling them that
American Continental was financially troubled even as they
assured buyers of the junior debt that the company was sound.
   When American Continental filed for bankruptcy-court
protection in April 1989, the subordinated bonds became
nearly worthless. Misstatements to buyers of about $250
million of those notes formed the basis of Mr. Keating's
conviction on California charges that he was responsible for
misleading investors, many of them retirees on fixed incomes.
His attorney, Stephen C. Neal, has said he will appeal.
   Others indicted yesterday on the federal charges were Judy
Wischer, former American Continental president; Andrew
Ligget, its former chief financial officer; Robert M.
Wurzelbacher, Mr. Keating's son-in-law and former company
senior vice president, and Charles H. Keating III, Mr.
Keating's son and former company executive vice president.
   The elder Mr. Keating was unable to post bail, set at $2
million, and was taken into federal custody. All five
defendants are scheduled for arraignment Monday.
   Lincoln, once the main subsidiary of Mr. Keating's
Phoenix, Ariz.-based company, was seized by federal
regulators in April 1989, a day after American Continental
filed for bankruptcy-court protection. The failure of Lincoln
Savings is expected to cost taxpayers $2.6 billion, the
largest such bailout in history.
   "Fraudulent business practices were really the order of
the day at Lincoln and at ACC," said U.S. Attorney Lourdes G.
Baird. "They victimized not only purchasers of bonds, but
also the millions of American citizens who will be left
holding the bag."
   Talking to reporters outside the courtroom, Mr. Keating's
attorney, Mr. Neal, said: "The indictment is an effort to
retroactively criminalize a whole host of investment
transactions that were legitimate when made. They were far
more economically sound than the prosecutors would lead you
to believe."
   Attorneys for the other defendants couldn't immediately be
reached.
   The government is also seeking forfeiture of some $265.6
million Mr. Keating purportedly obtained through the alleged
racketeering activity. Ms. Baird said no property has been
seized, but she declined comment as to whether Mr. Keating
and the others retain any valuable holdings. Mr. Keating has
said he is broke.
   The government's account of the alleged land-swap scheme
detailed six separate sales totaling about $82 million,
including three transactions in an area southeast of Phoenix,
Ariz., known as Hidden Valley. In those deals, a Lincoln
subsidiary allegedly sold property at a price far above
market value to third parties, with the subsidiary promising
to reimburse the purchaser for any down payment and the S&amp;L
providing much of the financing.
   Sham profits from all the alleged sales triggered some $32
million in cash payments from Lincoln to its parent under a
tax-sharing agreement that required Lincoln to make payments
to its parent based on a percentage of the thrift's profits,
the indictment said. Many of the payments were purportedly
made earlier than the agreement had called for. "By making
these premature payments, Lincoln in effect paid ACC
unauthorized dividends in the form of interest-free loans, to
the detriment of Lincoln" and the benefit of American
Continental, the indictment said.
   In detailing the alleged $975,000 "insider loans scheme,"
the indictment said the defendants began transferring the
$975,000 to themselves early in 1989. To prevent the
transfers from being challenged by the company's creditors,
the indictment said, Mr. Keating and others disguised them as
loans from a shell company, Medema Homes of Utah. In reality,
the grand jury charged, the defendants knew that the money
was really coming from American Continental and that the
recipients hadn't any intention of ever repaying.
   On March 7, 1989, for example, just slightly over a month
before the company filed for protection from creditors,
Medema transferred about $300,000 to the elder Mr. Keating.
   In the separate SEC civil case against Mr. Keating, which
also names his five co-defendants in the criminal case and
four others, the agency charged Mr. Keating with insider
trading in connection with the sale of $7.5 million in
American Continental common stock. The charge relates to SEC
claims that Mr. Keating sold more than 680,000 common shares
between January 1986 and November 1987 while in possession of
non-public information about the company's true financial
position.
   That suit, also filed in Los Angeles, says that American
Continental overstated its earnings by more than $120 million
in financial statements from 1985 through 1988. It further
alleges that the defendants violated anti-fraud laws in
connection with the sale of the subordinated debentures
through Lincoln.
   Others named in the SEC action were Robert Kielty,
American Continental's former president and chief operating
officer; Jack Atchison, a former senior vice president and a
former Arthur Young &amp; Co. partner; James Upchurch, a
certified public accountant who had various responsibilities
at American Continental, and Mark Sauter, a former in-house
attorney at the company.
   The suit in Los Angeles also charged Mr. Paul, the former
CenTrust chairman, with helping American Continental
improperly report a gain of $24.6 million on the sale of
securities during the second quarter of 1988.
   ---
   Sandra Block in Washington contributed to this article.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>

