
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900815-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900815-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Census Survey on Child Care Increases
   Concern About How Much Poor Can Pay
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/15/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A new U.S. Census Bureau survey provides a
sweeping look at how children are cared for in the U.S. and
increases concern about the ability of low-income families to
afford child care.
   The report could bolster child-care legislation under
consideration in Congress that would mainly aid low-income
families. The data are "particularly important," says Martin
O'Connell, who co-wrote the report, "especially when one
considers the amount of legislation that may be geared to
reimbursing payments for child care as a function of income."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comparisons with a 1977 survey show that the proportion of
children in organized day care has nearly doubled over the
decade, to 24% in 1987 from 13% in 1977. During the same
period, the use of relatives as child-care providers
declined. Care provided by relatives in the child's home
dropped to 8% in 1987 from 13% in 1977, and a similar decline
was seen in child care provided by relatives in their own
homes.
   The drop probably reflects the sharp increase in the
number of working women, which reduces the potential number
of female relatives available to care for children. About 59%
of the country's estimated 52 million children under age 15
had mothers who were employed in fall 1987.
   Working parents with preschool children often have the
most critical child-care needs. In 1987, 55% of women with
children under age five were employed, up from 35% a decade
earlier.
   In total, American families with employed mothers spent
$15.5 billion on all forms of child care in 1987, at an
average weekly cost of $49. That was an increase of $8 since
the last such survey was taken in the mid-1980s.
   Such costs averaged about $35 a week, or 25% of family
income, for families with employed mothers living in poverty.
By contrast, better-off families paid an average of $50 a
week, or 6% of family income.
   The Census Bureau report is the first to detail officially
that poor families pay a higher percentage of family income
for child-care services than do better-off families. The
legislation now in Congress "would help with costs and widen
choices" for low-income families, says Helen Blank, a
child-care expert with the Children's Defense Fund, who says
the Census Bureau figures confirm earlier estimates about
family income and child care.
   The report shows that children under age five who live in
poverty depended more on in-home care by grandparents and
other relatives than did better-off children. Children of
employed mothers with family incomes over $45,000 a year were
twice as likely to be using organized child-care facilities
as were children living in families with annual incomes below
$15,000. Organized child care covers day-care centers,
nursery schools and preschools.
   Ms. Blank says studies have shown that many low-income
women would prefer the developmental benefits of center-based
preschool care when their children reach the ages of three
and four, "but they can't afford it." She recalls tragedies
where dozens of children have been grouped together in
unsafe, unlicensed but cheap neighborhood day-care homes. "Is
that by choice?" she asks.
   The report also confirms what many employers have already
learned: that worries about child care can cost working
parents time and productivity on the job. About 7% of the
nine million women surveyed with children in some kind of
child care reported losing some time from work in the
previous month as a result of a breakdown in their child-care
arrangement.
   But the report shows that most families with working
mothers don't pay for child-care services. Only about
one-third of the 19 million employed women with children
under age 15 pay for child-care services, because most of
them have school-age children who are in school most of the
day and cared for after school in informal arrangements with
friends or neighbors.
   Most preschool-age children, or 66%, were cared for in
their own homes or in a provider's home while their mothers
were at work. Organized child-care facilities provided the
primary care for 2.2 million children under age five. An
additional 9% of preschoolers are cared for by their mothers
while working. About one-fourth of those mothers are employed
as private household workers or child-care workers.
   More than one-fourth of the 29 million children of
employed mothers also had a second child-care arrangement
during the day to cover the time before or after school,
based on the data collected in 1987. The report said that 22%
of these children looked after themselves. That proportion of
so-called "latchkey" children and most other data on
child-care arrangements hadn't significantly changed since
the last survey in 1984-85.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

