
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910205-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910205-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kinder-Care Says
   Gearreald Returns
   As President, Chief
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
02/05/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   KIND WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER &amp; HOUSEHOLD SERVICES, LAWN CARE, TAX PREPARATION (CSV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kinder-Care Learning Centers Inc. brought back Tull
Gearreald as president and chief executive officer after the
man who succeeded him in June resigned.
   The Montgomery, Ala.-based company gave no reason for the
departure of J. Phillip Samper. Mr. Samper, former vice
chairman of Eastman Kodak Co., couldn't be reached for
comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The executive change comes as Kinder-Care, the nation's
largest day-care center operator, struggles to restructure
its debt after missing interest payments to bank creditors
and noteholders.
   Mr. Gearreald became involved with Kinder-Care in 1988
when his merchant banking fund and merger advisory firm,
Lodestar Group, acquired a 4.9% stake in Kinder-Care's parent
company, now called Enstar Group Inc. Eventually, Lodestar
ended up with 63% of Kinder-Care following a restructuring.
   Mr. Gearreald became interim chief executive officer of
Kinder-Care last February, while his Lodestar partner, Ken
Miller, became chairman. They had a falling-out four months
later when Mr. Miller decided Mr. Gearreald should be
replaced as chief executive, and Mr. Gearreald left Lodestar.
   Mr. Miller said the board hired Mr. Samper in June because
he was a professional manager. "At the time, it looked like
things were on an even keel. The balance sheet problems were
challenging but not as daunting as they subsequently
appeared."
   Mr. Samper, according to Napoleon H. Overton, an analyst
at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co., planned to sell and lease back some
of Kinder-Care's day-care centers to generate about $100
million and reduce the company's debt. But bank credit for
lease-back deals soon dried up, and the company had to
abandon the effort late last year.
   Mr. Miller said Kinder-Care's board decided to rehire Mr.
Gearreald because he knows the company's situation, is
"financially sophisticated" and is popular with employees.
   Mr. Gerreauld, 45 years old, said he returned because, "I
have a strong obligation to the shareholders as well as the
creditors and employees." Most recently, Mr. Gerreauld has
been head of investment banking for UBS Securities Inc. in
New York. He remains an investor in Lodestar, which has more
than half of its fund invested in Kinder-Care.
   Kinder-Care's stock closed at 71.875 cents, up 15.625
cents, in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Mr. Gerreauld said a restructuring study by Coopers &amp;
Lybrand is under way, and a plan should be ready for
creditors within 60 days.
   He said the company will conserve cash by opening fewer
centers, but will keep investing in its 1,258 existing
centers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

