
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900618-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900618-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing-Minded Child-Care Centers
   Become More Than 9-to-5 Baby Sitters
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNR
</CO>
<LP>
   Many child-care centers are becoming surrogate extended
families to increase their appeal to a generation of harried
working parents.
   At some facilities, parents now can get child-care any
time of the day or night, whether they work odd hours or are
simply going to see a show. Some offer gym and swimming
classes, and transportation to baseball and soccer games.
Others let parents buy prepared meals to take home and reheat
for dinner. Even some centers serving low-income families are
taking a broader view of their role by arranging for a doctor
to visit weekly or providing immunization shots to children.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To go with their new flexibility and novel services,
innovators in the child-care field also have developed
sophisticated marketing strategies, keeping their eye on the
bottom line. Indeed, many of the more elaborate child-care
centers are actually making money in an industry with tight
profit margins. Their primary targets are affluent,
two-income families and corporations looking for ways to ease
family pressures. Many corporations, which often don't want
the hassles of operating an on-site child-care center, prefer
to subsidize spaces for employees' children nearby.
   "The child-care business is professionalizing and doing
what other market-oriented businesses do -- satisfying the
needs of its customers," says Michael Connelly, president of
Lepercq Capital Management Inc., the venture capital unit of
Lepercq, deNeuflize &amp; Co., a New York investment banking
firm.
   Lepercq Capital has been investing in "high-end child
care." A company launched by Lepercq two years ago already
operates 12 child-care centers in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey, with three more set to open this fall, and plans for
more elsewhere. Lepercq recently invested $600,000 to acquire
a 20% stake in Sunrise Preschools Inc., which provides care
for about 3,600 children in 12 facilities in the Phoenix,
Ariz., area, and two in Hawaii.
   Lepercq says it was led to Sunrise by a reputation for
quality and its pioneering programs. Consider the options:
Sunrise offers round-the-clock care for working parents with
late night, overnight and weekend schedules. It sets up
satellite facilities at the Phoenix civic center and area
resort hotels to provide care for the children of
conventioneers and vacationers. The Phoenix Symphony and
Herberger Theatre have tie-ins with Sunrise so parents can
make a child-care reservation when they order their tickets.
   "The type of parent we serve needs a lot of attention,"
says Buffy Owens, executive vice president of Sunrise, where
40% of the families enrolled have annual incomes exceeding
$50,000 and another 20% have annual incomes of $35,000 to
$45,000. "They earn more, they're having fewer children per
household than ever before, they're having children much
later in life and have more disposable income, so they're
looking for a place that can take care of both the parents'
and the child's needs."
   In Chicago, the Lakeshore Teaching &amp; Learning Center aims
to do the same. Its "flex" programs offer "clients" the
option of two to five days a week divided into any
combination of half days, three-quarter days or full days.
The center's parents, more than half of whom are
professionals with combined incomes of more than $50,000,
include diplomats and politicians.
   Richard Levin, president of the Lakeshore center, uses
advertising and public relations skills acquired in a past
career to market the nine-year-old center, which boasts 99%
occupancy with 350 children aged five months and up, even
though the $135 weekly rate is the area's priciest.
   To promote his center, Mr. Levin contracts with an outside
public relations consultant, publishes quarterly newsletters,
and holds constant tours of the center. One of the local
television stations shot background for "Year of the Child"
public service announcements at the center. "Every time you
turned around, there we were" on television," says Mr. Levin.
He also uses direct mail, and recently bought a list of
several thousand names targeted to affluent local ZIP codes
within 10 to 20 minutes of the center.
   Of course, many child-care centers prefer the traditional
path. Flexible hours can be an administrative nightmare. And
some believe that other programs divert attention from the
basic tasks of quality care and education. But there are
increasing numbers of parents and employers who need more
than that, and apparently are willing to pay for it.
   Though Mr. Levin says quality care for the children is
more important than the bottom line, "we can't be in business
unless we make a profit."
   At Sunrise, tuition runs from $84 to $130 a week, which
puts it at the high-end of the local market. But up to 30% of
its enrollment is subsidized by employers. Annamarie
Jennings, an attorney with the city of Phoenix, has two
children enrolled in a Sunrise center. Like other city and
county employees, she gets a 25% discount under a $356,000
three-year contract the city and county negotiated with
Sunrise to reserve spaces for 150 children who use it full
and part time.
   Cheryl Walsh and her husband, Jeff, both attorneys with
the law firm of Snell &amp; Wilmer, pay $86.40 a week for child
care for their two-year-old daughter, Keely, because of a 10%
discount negotiated by their employer. Their Sunrise facility
is just three blocks from their Phoenix office, and comes in
handy for weekend and evening care when they have to work
overtime.
   Sunrise says it has gone out of its way to cater to
corporate needs, and its roster also includes McDonnell
Douglas's helicopter subsidiary, the U.S. Postal Service and
several hospitals. To accommodate America West Airlines Inc.
flight attendants, baggage handlers and other employees with
diverse work schedules, Sunrise agreed to run a 24-hour,
seven-day-a week facility. It also created a new rate
schedule for part-time, three-quarters time and full-time
care. The airline subsidizes up to 50% of the weekly tuition.
   "Child care up to now has pretty much been held hostage by
the attitude that people in child care give of themselves and
that everybody must be the Mother Theresa type," says David
Pierson, editor of Child Care Review, a bimonthly journal for
managers of child-care centers. "The fact is that there
aren't that many saints on the face of the Earth. They've got
to figure out a way that a buck can be made."
</TEXT>
</DOC>

