<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880617-0024"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

The Reagan administration moved to deal with the worsening drought.
An interagency group has been appointed, although there was no
prediction as to what kind of relief might be authorized.  In 13
states, farmers have been authorized to harvest hay on idled cropland.
The administration may have to curb its export enhancement plan,
especially concerning soybeans.  Bankers that lend money to farmers
are worried about their borrowers' financial help.  Farm equipment
makers are concerned that sales could suffer.  Crop yields may be so
low that farmers would be strapped for cash and effects would ripple
throughout the farm economy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880630-0295"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

The Agriculture Department says it has been on top of the drought
since March 1, monitoring the situation, setting up hotlines, and
issuing statements; namely, a "USDA Backgrounder" to be updated every
two weeks listing the department's "drought-related" actions.  The
first lists separate actions taken, including: establishing a Drought
Task Force to constantly monitor the potential situation, allowing
emergency haying and grazing in drought-suffering counties, creating a
joint Federal Interagency Policy Committee, helping cattle producers
by setting aside 50 million to buy ground beef for donation to
schools, and creating a network to assist in locating forage
supplies.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880714-0142"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The drought plaguing much of the nation has shifted eastward but
little relief is in sight for most areas.  The forecast through next
Monday calls for hot, dry weather eastward from the Rockies through
the Ohio Valley to the Mid-Atlantic.  A 30-day weather forecast last
Wednesday held little hope for improvement.  At the beginning of July,
29% of the nation was undergoing severe or extreme drought.
Nationally, the drought is about equivalent to that of 1911 but is
less severe than in the 1930s or 1956.  In the Midwest, however, large
areas have experienced the driest April-June period since 1895.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880811-0299"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The Agriculture Department confirmed Thursday that a deadening drought
will curtail the Fall corn harvest by a third or more, resulting in
higher retail food prices for months and years to come.  However, crop
stockpiles are so high that the US need not fear shortages on grocery
shelves or discontinuance of food exporting.  Also, President Reagan
has signed a $3.9 billion relief bill that will help farmers to
survive to plant again next Spring.  Compared to 1987, corn production
is down 34%, soybeans 23%, wheat 1%, oats 45%, barley 45%, sorghum
24%. The consumer food price index could go up 2%.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0119"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A new computer study reported Thursday that this year's drought in the
Midwest may have been caused, April through June, by ocean temperature
abnormalities near the equator in the Pacific Ocean.  During that
period there were alternating high and low pressure centers across
much of the Pacific northern half of the Western Hemisphere.
Temperatures ranged up to 5.4F below normal in an extensive band along
the equator.  A bit to the north, they ranged 0.9 above normal.  When
fed into the computer, the pattern of stationary alternating high and
low pressure systems was produced. Associating these temperatures with
drought will require more computer modeling.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891210-0079"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The record $3.9 billion drought relief program of 1988 became an
unexpected election-year windfall for thousands of farmers who
collected millions of dollars for nature's normal quirks.  An
Associated Press study found the relief bill paid cash to farmers far
beyond original intent to save farmers from bankruptcy.  The program
broadened at each step, adding hail, flood, heat, insect, wind, and
fungus damage.  None of the conditions should have been ruled
eligible.  Loose regulations and lax enforcement were the major
reasons for Government generosity.  Also, it was noted that
politicians were trying to be recognized in an election year as
friends of agriculture.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891213-0004"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The drought of 1988 hit hardest in the upper Midwest with more relief
aid ($100 million) going to North Dakota than any other state.  North
Dakota, the nation's most agriculturally dependent state and the
number one producer of hard-red spring wheat, lost two-thirds of its
1988 crop.  The $3.9 billion relief aid, due to lax rules outside the
Midwest, led to thousands of farmers collecting millions of dollars
for normal trials of nature.  However, money did reach areas Congress
most intended to aid, including North Dakota, where it kept some
farmers on their land and may have prevented some business
closures.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900910-0020"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

According to an Agriculture Department analysis of nine "drought
region" states, the 1988 drought was not as bad as it might have been.
Crop yields plummeted but commodity prices rose.  For those who eked
out some production, or had grain stored, it was not too bad.  A basic
finding was: despite the drought, farms in all areas of the country
continued to improve their solvency position in 1988.  In the drought
states, 62.2% of the farms were in favorable financial positions,
compared to 62.8% in 1987.  Debt position improved due to an upward
trend in land values and higher market prices.</SUM>
