<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910326-0090"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">

John Kelley is in training for his 60th Boston Marathon.  The 83-year
old icon of the marathon world is the object of attention for his
endurance.  The 26- mile, 385 yard course will claim many a runner but
Kelley hopes to finish the grinding course as he did last year.

Kelley is a medical wonder and he continues to confound the experts
over his physical condition.

Originally he started running after work 60 years ago in order to
relax and began entering the Boston Marathon.  He won in 1933 and 1945
and was a runner-up seven times.  Experts predict that, even at the
age of 83, he will finish ahead of most of the 13,000 other runners
entered in the race.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06105230"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

The Boston Marathon has a storied past.  It has produced many of the
world's top marathon runners.

In the past, this marathon has turned into a speed duel and a race of
attrition.  The upcoming version may not be any different.

Records for checkpoints along the route have fallen at an alarming
rate.  In 1990, all 11 checkpoint records were broken through the
first 20 miles.

This year's race is filled with well-known entrants, including Gelindo
Bordin who ran the second fastest time in race history last year, and
Ingrid Kristiansen, a 35-year-old Norwegian woman who holds the
world's record.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA041889-0039"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

A number of years ago, Ethiopian athletes came out of Africa and
surprised the world by winning three consecutive Olympic marathon gold
medals.  That domination appears to be happening again.

Now, Abebe Mekonnen, an Ethiopean policeman, has won the prestigious
Boston Marathon for 1989.  Two other Ethiopians were in the race,
finishing ninth and 18th.  In two days, runners from Ethiopia have won
three major world marathons.  Another Ethiopian is the favorite in the
upcoming London marathon.

Ethiopians train in a mountainous area of their country and it is this
altitude that enhances their performance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA103089-0043"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Patience paid off for the two winners of the Chicago Marathon on
Sunday.  Heat and humidity, as well as strong winds, sapped the
strength of the runners, however.

Paul Davies-Hale, and Englishman and Lisa Weidenbach from Washington
state both held back in a conservative race, saving their energy for
the last few miles.

Davies-Hale's winning time was 2:11:25, the second slowest in this
marathon's history.  Weidenbach's time was a very respectable 2:28:15.

Weather conditions for the race were poor, with temperatures in the
mid-60's, 53 percent humidity, and strong winds.  Forty degree
temperatures with cloud cover are ideal.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA050889-0075"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">    
 
Patience is a much-desired quality for the 26.2-mile runner.

This was the case on Sunday during the Long Beach Marathon.  The two
winners, Rex Wilson of New Zealand and Wen Yanmin of China, waited for
others to make mistakes and for the sun to take its toll.

Wilson set a pace of 5 minutes per mile and took the lead at the
10-mile marker.  At this pace, he set a course record.

Yanmin, a student from Beijing, also set a course record.  She had to
overcome the lead of another runner in a close finish.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110590-0038"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

The New York City Marathon winners for 1990 were Douglas Wakiihuri and
Wanda Panfil.  For each, it was the third successful marathon victory
and continues the domination of foreign runners in this marathon.

Wakiihuri is a Kenyan who trains in Japan.  He bolted away from a pack
of runners at 20 miles and was clocked at 2:12:39 at the finish.  This
timing was the slowest in six years.

Panfil's time was 2:30:45, the slowest winning women's time since
1978.

The last American winner for the men was Alberto Salazar in 1982.  The
last woman winner was Miki Gorman in 1977.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081890-0039"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Marathon runner Alphonce Swai is continuing his comeback bid by
entering the upcoming America's Finest City HomeFed Half Marathon.
Swai, who ran in the 1984 Olympics for Tanzania is a recovering
alcoholic.

Swai began his comeback by entering the Trib10k race but finished a
poor 16th.  He has won two races since then, the Coronado Half
Marathon and the Goodwill Games 10k run in Seattle.  He was able to
achieve victory in the Goodwill Games despite his taking a wrong turn.

Swai believes the upcoming race will be a difficult one in that the
runner who paces himself will win.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA121189-0017"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Ernesto Beatriz Martinez was a late participant for the San Diego
International Marathon.  Martinez had to make his way on a 12-1/2 hour
bus ride from his home to Tijuana and then across the border to San
Diego.  He arrived just in time for the start of the race.

Martinez, in an amazing feat of endurance, won the 26-mile plus race
in 2:16:12.

The women's division winner was Marie Rollins, a former Irish Olympic
team member.

Martinez and Rollins received $5,000 each for their victory.

Martinez commented that his purse would help him to repay his family
and friends for the trip.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110490-0184"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Lieutenant Zanti intends to match the efforts of his wife and father
who are running in the Marine Corps Marathon in Washington.  The naval
officer is planning on running on the battleship WISCONSIN.

Zanti had been stationed in the Mediterranean and planned on training
on land and on the ship.  Because of the ship's deployment to the
Persian Gulf, these plans were canceled.

The WISCONSIN is 887 feet long or about 1/6 of a mile.  Zanti will
have to do about 75 laps to equal 26.2 miles.

Zanti became interested in marathon running while watching his father
in California marathons.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06312120"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Marathon vacations?  Isn't that a contradiction in terms?  Not so,
says the owner of a company that arranges tours for people who want to
take a vacation and run a 26.2-mile marathon at the same time.

The tours are arranged to some of the more famous marathon cities,
e.g., Boston, London, and Berlin.  Entry fees, medical examinations,
and other requirements are all included in the tour package.  Runners
are guaranteed places in marathons.

Running in a marathon vacation may not be everyone's cup of tea, but
it is a unique way to see a city.</SUM>
