<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA092490-0095 SJMN91-06012224 AP880927-0117 LA030889-0163 AP881009-0072
AP880928-0054 LA061589-0143 LA030789-0047 LA021689-0227 AP880928-0146
AP880927-0089 AP891006-0029 SJMN91-06084228"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 

At the Seoul Olympics in September 1988, Canadian Ben Johnson won the
100-meter dash but was stripped of his gold medal, suspended from
international competition for two years, and banned from Canada's team
for life after testing positive for illegal steroid use.  A fellow
Canadian sprinter, in a published interview, said that Johnson's
personal physician had provided steroids to her and Johnson with the
knowledge of their tract coach.  The physician denied he had ever
prescribed such drugs to any athletes.  In June 1989, Johnson
testified that he had used illegal performance-enhancing drugs in
1987.  An employee of NBC-TV and physical therapist at the Seoul
Olympics, said that Johnson's track coach remarked before the race
that Johnson is "more afraid of failing the drug test that he is of
Carl Lewis."  After Johnson's two-year suspension ended in September
1990, track meet promoters eagerly signed him up to race in Hamilton,
Canada.  He finished second in the 50-meter dash, far off his record
time, but received a standing ovation.  In 1991, his Canadian coach
testified at a federal inquiry that he had given athletes every
steroid combination imaginable.  His system worked well until Johnson
was caught for illegal steroid use at Seoul.</SUM>
