<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880927-0089"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
 
Canadian Ben Johnson, accused of cheating with drugs in the world's
fastest 100-meter dash, left the Olympics stripped of his gold medal.
He was also suspended from international competition for two years and
banned from Canada's national team for life.  Many athletes accepted
the accusation that Johnson used the illegal and dangerous anabolic
steroid called stanzolol, and one noted that "steroids is nothing
anymore."  Johnson appeared to be in a complete state of shock and not
able to speak as he made his way back to Toronto.  The prize went to
American Carl Lewis, who did not gloat over his rival's fall.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880927-0117"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Canadians were shamed, angry, and saddened that national hero Ben
Johnson was stripped of his Olympic gold medal after a urine sample
showed traces of anabolic steroids.  Johnson had won the 100-meter
dash in a record-breaking 9.79 seconds.  The medal went to American
Carl Lewis who finished second.  Canada's Sports Minister said his
government accepted the validity of the tests.  He acknowledged that
it was suggested to him several months ago that Johnson might be using
steroids.  It was a second shock to national sports fans after hockey
legend Wayne Gretsky was traded from the Edmonton Oilers to the Los
Angeles Kings.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880928-0146"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

The stripping of Ben Johnson's Olympic gold medal after he won the 100
meters Saturday in 9.79 seconds, shamed a nation hungry for a hero to
replace hockey superstar Wayne Gretsky.  He was stripped of the medal
Tuesday when he tested positive for stanzolol, a steroid outlawed by
Olympic officials.  Sports columnists heralded his unheroic conduct as
"Fools Gold", "From Fame to Shame", and "Big Ben is Now Has Been",
calling the episode a tragedy of epic proportions.  However, one
columnist said the nation should not cover its head in shame noting
that after all, "it is also just a foot race."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881009-0072" 
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Fellow Canadian Olympic sprinter Angella Issajenko was quoted as
saying in a published interview that Ben Johnson knowingly took
steroids.  She also said that Johnson, stripped of his Olympic gold
medal in the 100-meter final after testing positive for stanzolol, was
also taking steroids when he set a world sprint record last summer in
Rome.  Ms. Issajenko said she also took the muscle-building drugs and
claimed that Dr. Jamie Astaphan provided the steroids to her and
Johnson with the knowledge of their track coach.  The federal
government has appointed an official to head a judicial inquiry into
the Johnson affair.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021689-0227"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Ben Johnson's personal physician, Dr. Jamie Astaphan, has said that
the disgraced sprinter took the banned steroid stanzolol on one
occasion four months before the Seoul Olympics last year.  Astaphan
said Johnson suffered "violent muscle spasms" after taking it and that
he nursed him back to top condition.  Astaphan also said that Johnson
was not on stanzolol when he beat Lewis for the 100 meters gold and
denied he ever prescribed such drugs to Johnson or other athletes.
Johnson has said he never knowingly took performance-enhancing drugs.
An inquiry into drug use in amateur sports resumes hearing next
Wednesday in Toronto.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA061589-0143"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

In the aftermath of Ben Johnson admitting to his steroid use, many US
track and field officials and athletes said Johnson should be stripped
of his world record in the 100-meter dash.  Johnson testified this
week at a Canadian inquiry that his involvement with illegal
performance- enhancing drugs included injections before the 1987 World
Championships in Rome.  He was tested after his world-record run
there, but the results were negative.  The possibility that Johnson
could lose his record was raised when the International Amateur
Athletic Federation asked for "legal opinion" to see what to do about
records of confessed drug users.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030789-0047"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Carl Lewis said he knew Ben Johnson was taking performance-enhancing
drugs just after their 100-meter final at the Seoul Olympics.  Now
Lewis has been implicated in an alleged sabotage of Johnson's drug
test, which turned out positive.  A Canadian sprint coach testified at
a Canadian inquiry that Johnson might have drunk contaminated beer
before a urine analysis.  Accordingly, an unidentified man who had
been talking with Lewis sat near the beer provided to facilitate urine
samples.  Lewis' attorney said the allocation was ludicrous.  Lewis
called for Johnson to be a role model like himself and to tell kids to
stay off drugs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030889-0163"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Lynda Huey, who was at the Seoul Olympics working for NBC-TV and as a
physical therapist, said that Canadian coach Charlie Francis bragged
about Ben Johnson's preparation for a show- down against sprinter Carl
Lewis.  Accordingly, Francis, who had claimed that Johnson's urine
sample at the Olympics was spiked with a banned steroid, told Ms. Huey
before the race that Johnson was "more afraid of failing the drug test
than he is of Carl Lewis."  Huey said at a drug use inquiry she had
known Francis since 1980 and she was tired of hearing him say Johnson
was clean at the Olympics.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891006-0029"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Ben Johnson, the world-class sprinter who lost his Olympic gold medal
after testing positive for steroids, said that it is wrong for
athletes to use muscle-building substances.  Johnson spoke to
reporters as legislation to classify anabolic steroids as a controlled
substance was introduced Thursday.  He was invited to appear by three
Congressmen who were presenting the legislation.  Carl Lewis also
attended the news conference because he was working on his
autobiography and one of his chapters deals with steroids.
Representative Mel Levine (D-Calif) referred to the abuse of steroids
as "the silent side of the drug disease in this country."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092490-0095"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Ben Johnson will at last get his chance to back up his boasts that he
can regain his form of two years ago (1988) when he was stripped of
his 100-meter gold medal after testing positive for anabolic steroids.
His two-year suspension ends today and the questions begin - What can
he do when not assisted by drugs?  Promoters of indoor meets this
season are anxious to sign him up for high fees in the hope that his
promises to redeem himself will fill seats and rejuvenate interest in
track.  Johnson has passed at least four drug tests during his
suspension.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06012224"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

In the 50-meter dash at the Hamilton Spectator Games Friday, the first
race after his two-year suspension for drug use, Ben Johnson proved he
can run fast without the prohibited anabolic steroid that caused his
expulsion.  However, he only managed to finish second behind Darn
Council of Florida.  The race produced a record crowd of 17,050 and
drew nearly 500 journalists from 14 countries.  His time of 5.77
seconds to Council's 5.75 was far from the 5.55 he ran in 1987 that is
still the fastest ever.  Johnson was given a thunderous standing
ovation before and after the race.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06084228"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Charlie Francis, the Canadian National Sprint Coach, testifying in
Toronto at a federal inquiry about the use of performance-enhancing
drugs, made it plain that he had given the athletes every steroid
combination imaginable, his experiments carefully calibrated and
analyzed.  His system worked well until his most famous pupil, Ben
Johnson, tested positive for illegal steroid use at the Seoul Olympics
in 1988 and lost his gold medal.  In his own confessional "Speed
Trap", Francis argues that steroids must be used to be a world-class
sprinter.  They make runners train harder not run harder, their use is
rampant, and too prevalent to be banned.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880928-0054"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Ben Johnson returned to Canada without the Olympic gold
medal, dodging reporters and the public and refusing to
talk about the illegal steroid found in his system after he
won the 100-meter dash as the world's fastest human.  On
the flight from South Korea, he denied using the drugs
although Olympic officials said the results were
indisputable.  Canada's Sports Minister said Johnson tested
negative for drugs in August and passed eight tests in two
years.  Johnson's family, friends, and personal physician
denied he took steroids.  Hundreds rallied to his side in
Toronto but his fans in Montreal said they were
disappointed.</SUM>    
