<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="WSJ880510-0079 WSJ870922-0050 FT921-280 WSJ870325-0008
WSJ880919-0094 AP890324-0005 AP900331-0064 AP890322-0078
AP890406-0238 WSJ870612-0139 WSJ870730-0117 AP890127-0271"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
  
Conservatives can be expected to oppose the Kennedy-Hawkins proposed
legislation to raise the Minimum wage from $3.35 per hour to $4.65.
Also, President Reagan, who once said that a minimum wage caused more
unemployment than anything since the Great Depression, might veto such
legislation.  Labor Secretary Brock said Administration opposition may
be relaxed if the bill is diluted, particularly to include a
sub-minimum training wage for new and inexperience employees.
Organized Labor sees the training wage as an opening for employers to
replace higher paid workers.  Business spokesmen say that States can
better determine minimum standards for workers based on supply and
demand.  Most observers, including Republicans, believe that an
increase is inevitable since the present minimum wage does not permit
workers to meet the poverty level.  President Bush would only support
an increased minimum wage if the bill included a sub-minimum training
wage.  Labor Secretary Dole argues that most minimum wage workers are
young, part-time, living at home and not in poverty.  The bill finally
passed by Congress included many compromises: a lower hourly wage
($4.25), a sub-minimum wage for workers ages 16-19 and hundreds of
exemptions for some types of employees and small businesses.  </SUM>
