<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="WSJ880510-0079 WSJ870922-0050 FT921-280 WSJ870325-0008
WSJ880919-0094 AP890324-0005 AP900331-0064 AP890322-0078
AP890406-0238 WSJ870612-0139 WSJ870730-0117 AP890127-0271"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
After enactment of a 25 cent per hour minimum wage 50 years earlier,
industries warned of economic mayhem.  Similar conservative warnings
are expected as Senator Kennedy and Congressman Hawkins prepare
legislation to raise the minimum from $3.35 to $4.65 per hour.
President Reagan once said the minimum wage caused more unemployment
than anything since the Great Depression so he may veto such
legislation.  However, Labor Secretary, Bill Brock, said the
Administration may relax its opposition if the bill is significantly
diluted, exempting youths lacking entry-level skills and dropping
plans for future raises.  House Committee Chairman Hawkins said if
Brock put his ideas in a bill, it would be given a hearing.  US
employment has risen regardless of minimum wage increases or no
increases which conservatives see as an argument against.  But even
some Republicans see an increase as inevitable since working at the
minimum wage no longer keeps workers above the poverty level.  A
Chamber of Commerce spokesman says that States are in a better
position to set minimum standards since the amount paid to a worker is
determined by local supply and demand.  States with high minimum wage
levels (still below the proposed National standard of $5.05) have low
unemployment and higher costs of living.  Vice President Bush has
called for an increase in the wage and President Reagan, despite his
earlier position shared by Labour and Torries in the UK, says he and
Bush are in agreement.

President Bush says he could support increasing the minimum wage if
Congress sets a sub-minimum training wage, according to Labor
Secretary Dole.  Organized Labor opposes this move since they believe
some employers would use the training wage for hiring and lay off
higher paid workers.  Dole argues that most minimum wage earners are
young, part-time, living at home and not in poverty.

The House passed a bill to raise the standard to $4.55.  Kennedy's
Senate bill had set $4.65 as a goal but he would amend his bill to be
identical with the House version.  New hire wages would be 85% of the
minimum.  A new poll showed strong support for the increased minimum
even if it resulted in higher retail prices and moderate support if it
cost jobs.  House Minority Leader Michel said the President would not
compromise.  The bill eventually passed by Congress called for the
minimum to be increased in steps to $4.25 by 1991.  There were
hundreds of exemptions for some types of workers and for small
business.  </SUM>
