<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870325-0008"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
   
When the 25 cent an hour minimum wage became law 50 years earlier,
industries warned of economic mayhem.  Alarms are likely to be again
sounded when Senator Kennedy and Congressman Hawkins introduce
legislation to increase today's minimum wage from $3.35 to about $4.65
an hour.  Final shape of the bill is not set and may prompt a veto
from the president who once said that a minimum wage caused more
unemployment and misery than anything since the Great Depression.  The
AFL-CIO argues that an increase is long overdue since the minimum wage
has not kept pace with rising living standards.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870730-0117"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
A Wall Street Journal editorial states that the US economy generated
9M new jobs since Congress stopped raising the minimum wage in 1981.
Yet, Organized Labor which supports job creation, makes a strong pitch
for the Kennedy-Hawkins "Minimum Wage Restoration Act".  The Journal
fears that Labor Secretary Brock may compromise away President
Reagan's opposition to the minimum wage.  Kennedy-Hawkins would raise
the wage from $3.35 to $4.65 in three years.  Senator Quayle has
calculated that Democratic projects on minimum wage and health
coverage would add $1.19 to wage costs at the bottom of the income
scale.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870612-0139"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
  
The Reagan Administration may relax its opposition to an increase in
the minimum wage if Congress agrees to dilute the legislation
significantly.  Labor Secretary Brock says it must exempt youths
lacking entry-level job skills and drop plans for future raises.
Brock said that a number of people are not only unemployed but
unemployable and that increasing the wage would add to the problem.
Rep Hawkins said that if Brock put his ideas into a bill it would be
given a hearing.  But, he said, it's too early to talk compromise.  An
aide to a Republican Senator said that many people feel that an
increase in the wage is inevitable.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870922-0050"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

During a period when no increases were made to the minimum wage as
well as a period when increases were made, US employment rose.
Conservatives and business groups see this as an argument against
raising the wage which they believe will cause a loss of jobs.  A
University of Pennsylvania economist says that estimates of dire
consequences for the economy by raising the minimum wage don't stand
up to scrutiny.  US Chamber of Commerce members say they would trim
employment or delay hiring if the wage is increased.  Working at
minimum wage no longer keeps workers above the poverty level.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880510-0079"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

Congress will soon consider a boost in the minimum wage.  An impetus
has been the recent increases by several states in their minimum
wages.  No state now has a minimum as high as the proposed national
standard of $5.05.  States with high minimum wage typically have low
levels of unemployment and high cost of living.  Some states have wage
minimums much lower than the present national standard.  A Chamber of
Commerce spokesman says that states are in a better position to set
minimum standards since the amount paid to a worker is determined by
local supply and demand.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880919-0094"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Vice President Bush has called for a boost in the wage floor thus
improving chances for enactment.  Bush, a presidential candidate,
voiced support after being jeered by workers who had suffered pay
cuts.  A Chamber of Commerce spokesman says that chances for passage
have now increased from "next to zero" to 50-50.  President Reagan who
had characterized minimum wage increases as causing unemployment says
he and Bush are in agreement.  A proposal by Senator Hatch to allow
employers to pay a "training wage" of 80% of the minimum may be a
stumbling block.  Proponents say that the increase is needed to raise
the income of millions of workers above the poverty line.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890127-0271"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

President Bush said that he could support an increased minimum wage
only if Congress also established a sub-minimum training wage.  Labor
Secretary Elizabeth Dole had told the Senate of that position the day
before.  Senator Kennedy, chairman of the committee is opposed to the
training wage.  Mrs.  Dole said that the "skills gap" could be erased
through job-training programs.  Organized labor believes that some
employers would use the lower, training wage for hiring and would lay
off higher paid workers.  Kennedy's bill would increase the wage from
$3.35 to $4.55 per hour in three annual 40 cent increases.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890322-0078"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

House backers for increasing the minimum wage lowered their target to
$4.55 per hour as President Bush declared that they had the votes to
sustain a veto of any amount over $4.25. They also agreed to a
sub-minimum training wage, but for 60 days rather than the 6-month
period demanded by Bush.  Labor Secretary Dole said that most minimum
wage earners are young, part time, and living at home and not in
poverty.  The 60 day training wage would apply only to new workers and
exclude agriculture workers.  It could not be paid to workers hired to
replace recently laid-off employees.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890324-0005"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">   
  
The House passed a minimum wage bill that exceeded the amount which
President Bush said he would veto.  The House asked the president to
refrain from veto threats until after the Senate acts.  Senator
Kennedy sponsored a bill that would raise the minimum to $4.65 by 1992
but is open to amending his bill and has asked the President to keep
an open mind until the House and Senate agree.  The House bill would
boost the wage to $4.55 by 1991 and would have a new hire wage pegged
at 85% of the minimum.  It also contained several exemptions for small
business.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890406-0238"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

House Minority Leader Michel said that the President would show no
flexibility on his position on the minimum wage.  Senator Kennedy,
whose Senate bill calls for a higher wage than the House, said that he
would offer an amendment to make his bill identical to that of the
House.  A new poll showed strong backing for the increased wage even
it triggered higher consumer prices, but fewer favored it if it meant
loss of jobs.  Bush has proposed increases leading to a rate of $4.25
by 1992, if employers could hire new workers at a sub-minimum wage for
six months.  The House bill would raise the wage to $4.55 </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900331-0064"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Congress passed legislation that increases the minimum wage from $3.35
per hour, in steps to $4.25 in 1991.  Workers ages 16-19 may be paid a
sub-minimum training wage for the first three months and longer if the
employer has a formal training program.  Seasonal migrant farm workers
are exempt from the sub minimum which expires in 1993.  Even after the
increase, full-time workers would still be short of what it takes to
support one adult and one child at the poverty level.  Hundreds of
exemptions exist for some types of workers and for some small
businesses.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-280"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

A minimum wage is a convenient way for a left-of-center government to
appear to be doing something about poverty.  But Tories believe that
would be harmful.  No-one knows whether or how a statutory minimum
would affect unskilled wages and employment in the UK.  International
evidence is a source of clues as to how a minimum wage would affect
unskilled wages and employment.  A survey of fast food restaurants in
the US, which has a large and competitive service sector paying low
wages, showed that over half had to raise wages to meet the minimum.
But the survey contradicts the view that raising the minimum prices
people out of jobs.  </SUM>
