<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA072389-0049 WSJ901231-0134 AP890610-0046 AP891005-0230
LA110490-0034 SJMN91-06015144 WSJ891026-0063 AP900724-0207
AP880304-0218 AP890623-0230"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Las Vegas has grown from a dusty town of a few resorts in the 1950s
into a booming metropolis of more than 600,000 people, with nearly
60,000 hotel and motel rooms to accommodate tourists.

By 1990, the city could claim to be the nation's fastest-growing
state.  Tourism was growing and the gaming and resort industries were
attempting to capitalize on the trend.

Already boasting the world's two largest resort hotels, Las Vegas will
soon have five hotel-casinos with more than 3,000 rooms apiece.  The
construction boom was created, experts say, by an aggressive marketing
strategy used in the past few years by the state of Nevada.

Between 1989 and 1992, more than 20,000 hotel rooms were added to the
61,000 existing rooms, according to hotel owners and industry
analysts.  About 7,000 of those are in two hotels: the $630-million
Mirage and the $290-million Excalibur.

Las Vegas has also been very successful in landing conventions.  By
1989, Las Vegas was the third largest convention city in the United
States and was expected to be No. 2 by 1991.  Las Vegas is one of the
top destinations for group tours coming from Asia and Europe.

Beginning in the late 1980's, Japanese investors, attracted by bargain
properties and a dramatic increase in tourism by their countrymen, had
invested or committed $800 million in the city.

In 1989, Las Vegas has also hosted 18,000 members of the Southern
Baptist Convention, the nation's largest Protestant denomination.

But problems like traffic, pollution, lack of water and an adequate
labor market have also come with the city's massive growth.  </SUM>
