<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="LA072389-0049 WSJ901231-0134 AP890610-0046 AP891005-0230
LA110490-0034 SJMN91-06015144 WSJ891026-0063 AP900724-0207
AP880304-0218 AP890623-0230"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  
 
Las Vegas has grown from a dusty town of a few resorts into a booming
metropolis of more than 600,000 people, with nearly 60,000 hotel and
motel rooms to accommodate tourists.  By 1990, the city could claim to
be the nation's fastest-growing state.

As Las Vegas undergoes one of the most ambitious of its periodic
building booms, there are few who believe that overbuilding is a
problem.  Tourism is growing and the gaming and resort industries are
attempting to capitalize on the trend.

Already boasting the world's two largest resort hotels, Las Vegas will
soon have five hotel-casinos with more than 3,000 rooms apiece.  The
construction boom was created, experts say, by an aggressive marketing
strategy used in the past few years by the state of Nevada.  The
tourism economy has been helped by the growth in three-day weekends
and a national trend toward mini-vacations of 2-3 days.

Between 1989 and 1992, more than 20,000 hotel rooms were added to the
61,000 existing rooms, according to hotel owners and industry
analysts.  About 7,000 of those are in two hotels: the $630-million
Mirage and the $290-million Excalibur.  The building of the two
hotel-casinos is the most stunning example of the city's concerted
effort to transform itself into a vacation resort for families as well
as gamblers.

Las Vegas has also been very successful in landing conventions, which
attracted 1.6 million people to the city in 1987.  By 1989, Las Vegas
was the third largest convention city in the United States and was
expected to be No. 2 by 1991.  Las Vegas is one of the top
destinations for group tours coming from Asia and Europe.

Beginning in the late 1980's, Japanese investors, attracted by bargain
properties and a dramatic increase in tourism by their countrymen, had
invested or committed $800 million in the city.  The projects ranged
from four hotel-casinos to a downtown office building and a massive
golf course and resort development.

In 1989, Las Vegas has also hosted 18,000 members of the Southern
Baptist Convention, the nation's largest Protestant denomination.  The
decision to hold the annual convention in Las Vegas was controversial
and many Southern Baptists opted not to attend.

But problems like traffic, pollution, lack of water and an adequate
labor market have also come with the city's massive growth.  And by
1990, the city's ambitious development plans were coming to fruition
just as the regional economy was beginning to slow.  </SUM>
