<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA072389-0049"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Las Vegas hotel construction is booming as never before.  1992 will
add more than 20,000 hotel rooms according to hotel owners and
industry analyst.

The $630-million Mirage will have 3,100 rooms and the $290-million
Excalibur will have 4,032.  These two hotels will be the first major
projects in the city in 15 years.  Saul Leonard, a gaming industry
expert said "Las Vegas is the third largest Convention City in the
United States and probably will be No. 2 within the next two years."

"Effort's are being made to attract more visitors from near by
California and for away places like Asia and Europe.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891005-0230"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Plans to build a 5,000-room resort in Las Vegas would allow the city
to claim the eight largest hotels in the world by 1992 if other cities
do not build big hotels by 1992.

The Las Vegas Hilton has 3,174 rooms.  When the Flamingo Hilton
completes an expansion next March it will have 3,530 rooms. When the
Excalibur is completed next summer it will have 4,032 rooms and the
Mirage will opens next month with 3,054 rooms.

The Hilton Hawaiian Village Hotel in Honolulu with 2,525 rooms makes
it the largest hotel in number of rooms outside of Las Vegas.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890610-0046"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Sin City started receiving the first of 18,000 Southern Baptist this
weekend for their annual convention. Southern Baptist conventions have
drawn an average of 45,000 attendees in recent years.

Some members have decided to stay home this year not wanting to expose
their children to gambling, lack of pressing issues to discuss, and
not wanting to travel the distance from their stronghold in the
Southeast.

Those attending plan to distribute New Testaments and gospel tracts on
the strip.

Las Vegas officials are not in favor of this special attention, and
feel that life in Las Vegas outside the strip is little different from
any other city.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ901231-0134"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Las Vegas grew up in the 1980s from a purely gambling town to a
destination resort attracting families and conventioneers.  While the
gambling industry boomed, builders transformed the Las Vegas valley
into housing developments attracting residents from around the country
almost doubling the population.  Now the regional economy is beginning
to slow.

Many casinos have been laying off workers while thousands of new hotel
rooms are being constructed.  David Shulman, a Solomon Brothers
economist said that "Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen."
Efforts have been made to keep Las Vegas from depending so heavily on
the gambling industry by permitting interstate banking but those
efforts have not been too successful.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110490-0034"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

What's On in Las Vegas is a handy biweekly magazine the lists
entertainment and others attraction around the city. It can be useful
to senior citizens who are looking for special discounts.

A regular feature, "What's On for the Young at Heart" gives such
information as where to find discounted hotel rooms, food and
cosmetology services.  A special bargain featured by the transit
system gives senior with a valid Medicare card a 10-ride pass for
$4.20, which would normally cost $11.00.

The magazine is available in most hotels and also informs readers of
discounts on rental cars, motor scooters, and wheelchairs.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880304-0218"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
 
In 1955 Life magazine wondered if Las Vegas wasn't overbuilt.  More
than 30 years later the city has grown from a few resorts to a booming
metropolis of more than 600,000 people and nearly 60,000 hotel and
motel rooms.

Nearly 20,000 new hotel rooms are either under construction or
awaiting groundbreaking.  Figures show that 90.2 percent occupancy
during 1987.  This caused potential guest to be turned away especially
on holiday weekends.

Visitors nearly doubled in the last 12 years with and estimated 17
million tourist expected in 1988.  Part of the Las Vegas lure also
comes from room rates that average $45 a night.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-0605144"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Las Vegas, the paradigm of American excess and decadence, has
discovered Asia.  Oil prices, competition form Atlantic City, NJ and a
failing U.S. economy is forcing Las Vegas to turn its attention toward
Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and other booming Asian countries in search
of gamblers.

Some casinos are offering $6 overnight bus tours from Los Angeles's
Chinatown while others are offering all expense paid tours from the
Far East to attract high-rollers.  Other casinos such as Caesars
Palace and the Mirage have opened year-round marketing offices in
Asia.

Desert Inn President Kevin J. Malley estimated 90 percent of that
casino's top 100 gamblers are Asians.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900724-0207"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Las Vegas, located in Clark Count has an estimated 800,000 people
living there out of 1.3 million people in Nevada.  That gives Clark
county control in the state Legislature since they have 63 of the 99
seats.  Three counties with only 35,000 people are fighting the Las
Vegas water plan with little chance to win.

Las Vegas is holding another ace up its sleeve since Clark county
Casinos provide for 70 percent of the state's gaming revenues.
Basically, whatever Clark County wants Clark County gets.  Other
counties hope they don't go down the drain if Clark County mishandles
the water law.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890623-0230"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Japanese investors and tourists are fueling an economic boom in Las
Vegas, spending or committing over $800 million dollars.  Yoshi
Morichika is heading up a 1,270 acre golf and destination resort
community for Japanese recreation and electronics giant Cosmo World in
nearby Henderson at a cost of $200 million.

Japanese businessman Katsuki Manabe has invested $30 million in the
Park Hotel in downtown Las Vegas and millions more in his Nevada-based
Sigma Games, which makes gaming equipment.

However, some Japanese investors are running into financial difficulty
with their investments and failing properties such as the Dunes and
the Aladdin hotels.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ891026-0063"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
 
The $630 million Mirage fantasy-island hotel and casino will open in
November with a 60-foot mountain volcano that will erupt spewing smoke
and flames every five minutes.  It is the most stunning example of Las
Vegas's concerted effort to transform itself into a world famous
vacation resort for families as well as gamblers.  One resort will
hold jousting tournaments while another has plans for an on-site
amusement park.  Caesars Palace is building a $100 million shopping
complex comparable with Rodeo Drive.

Ferocious competition may drive some properties into bankruptcy or new
ownership.  Another concern is whether the new mega-resorts will be
able to make a profit.  </SUM>
