<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881211-0027"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

Hearings are planned next year into how the U.S. Forest Service
handled last summer's stubborn wildfires that scorched the West,
including one-third of Yellowstone National Park. Five million acres
were charred, including 706,000 acres in Yellowstone. The Forest and
National Park Services spent a combined $300 million fighting the
summer fires. The most severe were in and around Yellowstone and
Alaska, although there were fires in the South, California and the
Pacific Northwest. Drought conditions, high winds, and a tremendous
build-up of tinder, in Yellowstone in particular, helped make the 1988
fires the worst in a hundred years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0227"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Nationwide, last summer was the second worst wildfire season since the
government started keeping records. The 5.9 million acres that burned
in 1988 did not match the 28 million acres destroyed in 1926, but the
$583.8 million spent to fight 75,000 fires set a record. Nearly 1.5
million acres in the greater Yellowstone ecosystem burned, including
705,000 acres within the national park.  For two months, fires
threatened the small Montana tourist town of Cooke City and its tiny
suburb, Silver Gate. Residents and tourists were evacuated twice. An
early snowfall saved the towns, but pockets of fire could still lie
smoldering under the snow.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA052289-0050"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Last summer's spectacular fire season scorched nearly 1 million of
Yellowstone's 2.2 million acres. The firefighting effort was the
greatest in history, costing $120 million and involving 25,000
firefighters. In July, the Interior Department suspended its
"let-burn" policy, under which lightning-triggered blazes are allowed
to burn unless threatening human lives or property. Ecologists argue
vital wildfires clear away fallen lower branches of lodgepole pines
and overgrowth. The media erroneously suggested a national treasure
was destroyed. Flames fanned by record drought and gale-force winds
were stopped by one-quarter inch of rain and snow on
Sept. 11th. Similar but less frequent fires occurred in the
1700s.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890801-0025"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Nearly 10,000 firefighters in five Western states are battling
hundreds of blazes, most sparked by lightning last week. Over 1.3
million acres in the contiguous US have burned since January, compared
to the 2.1 million acres burned by this time last year. Heat and
drought across a wide swath of the West made 1988 the worst fire
season in 30 years, with 6 million acres burnt in the West and Alaska;
and the most expensive in US history in terms of firefighting
resources committed. Yellowstone National Park, where fire blackened 1
million acres, nearly half the park's territory, was one of the
hardest-hit areas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890805-0126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

On Saturday, 220,000 acres were ablaze, with 102,000 in Idaho and the
rest in Oregon, California and Utah. One storm laid down 2,000
lightning strikes an hour with little rain, then winds reaching 80 mph
and temperatures near 100 degrees whipped lightning strikes into major
conflagrations. Three-inch-thick burning branches blew up to two miles
ahead of the main fires. Five dry summers have left timber with a
moisture content close to kiln-dried lumber. After the last lightning
"bust" hundreds of fires burned fitfully in Idaho backcountry for
days. It will take fall rains and winter snow to douse many of the
nation's fires.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012090-0090"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Landscape contractor Owen Dell studied the effects of the 1977
Sycamore Canyon fire that destroyed 200 homes, jumping from house to
house but skipping others. He realized that landscaping had a
relationship to the amount of devastation. Dell, the city government
and fire department, and volunteers began planning the Santa Barbara
Firescapes Demonstration Garden to educate the public about reducing
the risks of wildfire near their homes through landscape design. No
plant is fireproof but some are more flammable than others. The most
flammable native flora like oaks, ceanothus and manzanita should be
planted farthest from the house, and sparsely.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051590-0065"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Brush and trees that surround many Southern California neighborhoods
are being dried out and killed by prolonged drought, bark beetles and
a rare fungus. They would be tinder-dry fuel for fires, creating
potential for one of the worst wildfire seasons in decades. Some of
the most vulnerable fire zones abut densely developed residential
districts of Los Angeles and its suburbs. A densely thicketed acre of
hillside chaparral contains about 60 tons of brush, with about the
same fuel energy as 3,750 gallons of gasoline. With 80 mph winds like
September's Santa Anas, a fire can consume 100 acres a minute.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081490-0030"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Forestry officials predict the 1990 fire season will be
devastating. The Yosemite fires, already scorching 15,000 acres and
still out of control, and the recent Santa Barbara and Glendale fires
that destroyed 500 homes, are only the largest of hundreds of
California blazes. Because of dryness, fires burn more rapidly and
intensely. During the four months of fires in 1988 at Yellowstone,
12,000 firefighters suffered respiratory problems. During one month in
1987, when 1500 fires attacked the Klamath National Forest near the
California-Oregon border, a strong inversion layer that settled into
the valley trapped thick smoke and crews fell ill in record
numbers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06071022"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Firefighting this year will be tougher because much military reserve
and National Guard equipment, and many pilots who are normally
mobilized against wildfires, are still in the Persian Gulf. Officials
plan an aggressive approach, putting out even small wildfires before
they spread, and deploying firefighters to areas where lightning
storms are forecast. The approach worked last year in Oregon's
Umatilla National Forest, where 170 fires were reported. In Santa
Barbara, where the drought is worst and where brush fires destroyed
600 homes and did $200 million damage last year, homeowners will be
compelled to remove vegetation near their houses.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06142126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

The December freeze killed heavy brush and millions of trees,
particularly eucalyptus, that are now primed to burn. 10% of the trees
in the 18 national forests have been killed by the drought or the
insect infestations it spawned. After five years of drought which has
parched the landscape, these are the ingredients for potentially one
of the worst wildfire seasons in California's history, unless an
unusually cool summer intervenes. March rains delayed fire season
until mid-June, but they have nurtured grass that soon will turn
tinder dry.  California's worst fire year was 1987, when 900,000 acres
burned.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06301029"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

A brushfire was thought to be contained on October 19th, but blossomed
into the intense, unpredictable firestorm that devastated the Oakland
hills. Water pressure dropped as electricity failures shut off
pumps. Six of California's 10 most damaging wildfires have occurred
since 1980, as Bay Area residents have moved farther into hills and
canyons.  Recent fires are bigger, more expensive to put out, and
cause more property loss. In 1985, a Los Altos Hills fire destroyed
100 acres and 12 homes--a year after residents repealed an ordinance
requiring fire-retardant roofs--and a six-day fire above Lexington
Reservoir scorched 14,000 acres and destroyed 42 homes.</SUM>
