<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP890117-0132 AP890930-0100 WSJ910405-0154 SJMN91-06283083
WSJ910710-0148 AP890322-0010 SJMN91-06191081 SJMN91-06129119
LA011889-0067 SJMN91-06195131 FT922-10200 LA030489-0068
AP901029-0035 LA080790-0111 LA071590-0068 LA010890-0031"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

There were many reported cases of "police brutality" or excessive use
of force by police officers during the years 1989-1992. The most
famous was the videotaped beating of Rodney G. King by four Los
Angeles officers on March 3, 1991. The report of the Christopher
Commission, formed to investigate the King case, focused national
attention on the problems of law enforcement and proposed steps to
solve these problems. It also called for the resignation of the Police
Chief, Daryl Gates, who refused to resign until June 1992 after the
acquittal of the four policemen caused massive rioting. Other cases of
police brutality against blacks and Hispanics came to light elsewhere
in southern California as well as in Minneapolis, Chicago, and Kansas
City, MO.

Another source of charges of police brutality was Operation Rescue
(OR), an organization that conducted anti-abortion demonstrations. OR
maintained that police tactics employed in more than 50 cities
amounted to torture and had resulted in serious injuries to
non-violent demonstrators arrested by police.  Complaints specifically
mentioned Denver, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, San Diego, West Hartford,
Conn., and Boston. Congress passed and on November 15, 1989 President
Bush signed legislation withholding certain federal grants from cities
whose police used excessive force.</SUM>
