<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890117-0132"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The Long Beach City Council has called for an investigation of an
incident broadcast on NBC's national news Monday night. A white
policeman, Dickey, was filmed pushing an off-duty black policeman,
Jackson, through a plate glass window. Jackson and a companion were
driving through a high-crime area of Long Beach when they were pulled
over by Dickey. Dickey started to search Jackson and when Jackson
asked why he was being searched, Dickey unleashed a stream of
profanity and ordered Jackson to put his hands behind his head. When
Jackson complied he was pushed through a plate-glass store
window.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA011889-0067"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
 
The Los Angeles County district attorney's office and FBI are
investigating a videotaped incident in which a white Long Beach
policeman, Dickey, appeared to shove a black man's (Jackson's) face
into a plate glass window after a routine traffic stop. Although
Dickey's attorney admitted that the officer was wrong to spice his
orders to Jackson with obscenities, Jackson was booked for suspicion
of using offensive language as well as challenging an officer to fight
and obstructing arrest. The assistant district attorney said that
their office has taken on four to six charges of police brutality a
year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030489-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
 
A white Long Beach police officer, Mark Dickey, who allegedly pushed a
black man, Don Jackson, through a plate-glass window during an arrest
has acknowledged to a Senate oversight committee that he made errors
in his official report.  Dickey admitted that it was he and not
Jackson who uttered obscenities during the arrest. Jackson testified
that in addition to pushing his face into the glass, Dickey hurt him
by bending his fingers while handcuffing him and pushing his face into
the hood of the police car. Officers refused to loosen his handcuffs
as he was taken to the station, Jackson said.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890322-0010"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
 
Deaths of two elderly blacks in a drug raid gone awry followed 10 days
later by a scuffle at a downtown hotel have aroused a demand for an
outside review of the Minneapolis Police Department. The deaths
resulted from a fire started when police hurled a stun grenade into
the apartment of the deceased. In the hotel incident, police,
responding to a complaint of a loud party, are alleged to have used
the term "nigger" and to have beaten some of those arrested. The
president of the Minneapolis Urban League says that police brutality
has been a problem there for years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06195131"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Anti-abortion demonstrators charge that police in more than 50 cities
have used excessive force against them. Retired Roman Catholic Bishop
George Lynch of New York vividly described the pain suffered when he
was apprehended by West Hartford, Conn. police in 1989. The
demonstrators claim that police tactics in Denver, Atlanta, Pittsburgh
and Los Angeles have resulted in serious injury and led to sexual
abuse against women who have been arrested. While the beating of
Rodney King by Los Angeles police has led to widespread calls for
investigation of police brutality, little attention has been directed
to police brutality and abuse suffered by the anti-abortion
demonstrators.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890930-0100"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

A Chicago City Council committee held two days of hearings last week
on allegations of police brutality against blacks. Blacks who alleged
they were the victims of police brutality accused officers--most of
them white--of unprovoked beatings, false arrests, intimidation and
insulting them with racial slurs. A 55-year-old grandmother testified
that she and her daughter were beaten up in 1987 by seven white police
officers who gave her "the sign of the Ku Klux Klan." Mayor Richard
M. Daley declared, "I will not ever tolerate police brutality, bias or
bigotry in the city of Chicago. Everyone should join together...to
help alleviate this problem."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA010890-0031"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

A videotape being shown nationwide catches Los Angeles police officers
intentionally hurting nonviolent anti-abortion demonstrators. They
press fingers under their noses, dig their knuckles into
demonstrators' necks, and torque martial arts weapons around their
wrists. The police call these techniques "pain-compliance." Opponents
call them torture.  Injuries have been mounting ever since police and
Operation Rescue protesters squared off at the 1988 Democratic
convention in Atlanta. Since then there have been charges of police
brutality in San Diego, Pittsburgh, West Hartford, Conn., Boston, and
Denver. Last November 15, President Bush signed legislation
withholding certain federal grants from cities whose police use
excessive force.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071590-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Over the past two years the Ventura district attorney's office in four
separate incidents has declined to prosecute suspects who contended
that they were victims of police brutality while being arrested by
Oxnard officers. In a fifth case an Oxnard man who says he and others
at a private party were beaten by Oxnard police, was prosecuted on
misdemeanor charges of resisting arrest rather than assaulting an
officer as charged by the arresting officer. The men involved in three
of the five incidents have filed police brutality lawsuits. In every
case it is alleged that officers beat or severely manhandled the
victim without provocation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080790-0111"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

On March 15, 1988 detective Clayton Searle was at the Los Angeles
International Airport looking for a drug courier. He spotted a man
making a phone call and, according to the suspect, grabbed his
shoulder, spun him around and asked him to identify himself. Then
Searle grabbed the suspect by the neck, they fell to the floor, the
officer put a knee on the suspect's back, and handcuffed him. The
suspect was Joe Morgan, the former Cincinnati Reds second
baseman. Morgan is suing in federal court claiming that he suffered
this treatment because he is black and fit a certain "profile" used by
narcotics officers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901029-0035"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The Kansas City police have suffered a string of complaints about
excessive force and racism. Most recently a young stockbroker, was
shot dead by a police officer who entered the victim's apartment at
3:30 a.m. looking for a prowler.  It was the seventh shooting death
involving Kansas City police this year. In June several white officers
bloodied a Nigerian-born Roman Catholic priest with nightsticks as he
lay on the ground. In May another black clergyman was hit on the head
with a shotgun by a white officer as he lay on the ground. Earlier
this year four officers riddled a man brandishing a barbecue fork with
15 bullets, killing him.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910405-0154"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The Police Chief of San Jose, CA, argues that the brutal beating of
Rodney King by four Los Angeles policemen would not have happened if
the four had feared that any of the 17 other officers watching would
report their criminal actions.  Other chiefs of police must forsake
their own code of silence and condemn Police Chief Daryl Gates. The
people of Los Angeles believe that police brutality is common and
disapprove of the way Mr. Gates has done his job. The cloud Gates has
cast over policing won't be lifted until police chiefs speak out
against one of their own.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06129119"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

At the end of a high-speed chase in Santa Clara County a police
officer takes his baton and brutally hits the suspect on the back
eight times, kicks him in the face, picks him up by the shoulders and
slams his face into the pavement.  The suspect suffers a dislocated
shoulder, a concussion, and numerous cuts, bruises and contusions. The
officer's report states that the suspect's injuries were due to a fall
from his bike. None of the back-up officers reported any
brutality. All too often a code of silence blocks prosecution of
police brutality. That is why we need citizen review boards.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191081"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The commission that was appointed by Mayor Bradley and Police Chief
Gates to investigate the Rodney King beating by Los Angeles police was
to release its report today. According to an anonymous source the
report neither blames nor clears Chief Gates.  Gates has said he would
resign if the commission agreed with critics that he created a climate
within the police department that condoned racism and brutality. The
American Civil Liberties Union and other groups called for Gates to
resign after the March 3 incident in which white police officers
repeatedly struck King with batons, kicked him and shocked him with a
stun gun.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0148"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The Christopher Commission, appointed after the videotaped March 3
beating of Rodney King by Los Angeles policemen, has issued a report
that paints a picture of brutality and racism in the police
department, calls for the resignation of Chief Gates, and could prompt
changes in law enforcement nationwide. Nearly one- quarter of 650
officers responding to a commission survey agreed that "racial bias on
the part of officers toward minority citizens currently exists and
contributes to a negative interaction between police and community."
One of the commission members commented "As troubling as some of our
findings are...they are not unique to Los Angeles."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06283083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

The Christopher Commission's scathing report on the Los Angeles Police
Department found racism, brutality, inadequate discipline,
mismanagement and a "siege mentality" pitting officers against the
community. Now critics are calling for the same kind of independent
investigation of the sheriff's department after sheriff's deputies
shot four people dead in the space of one month, three deputies were
charged with stealing credit cards from elderly people, and there have
been renewed charges that the department is home to white supremacist
gangs. The FBI, Amnesty International and the county grand jury are
investigation allegations about both the police and sheriff's
departments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-10200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Ten months after the Christopher Commission called for the resignation
of Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates, he has finally agreed to step
down. His decision was the result of his force's helplessness when
riots broke out after the four officers who beat Rodney King were
acquitted. Gates's departure is overdue. 

Six m nths after the Christopher Commission reported that a
significant minority of the Los Angeles police force "repetitively
misuse force," of the 44 officers identified as the object of six or
more brutality complaints, two had been fired, three had resigned and
11 removed from field duty. 28 remained untouched.</SUM>
