<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880318-0051"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Multitudes of native peoples, tourists and scientists today observed a
sun that was blackened for up to four minutes.  The total eclipse
along a 108-mile swath moved from the Indian Ocean across Indonesia
and the southern Philippine island of Mindanao and ended in the Gulf
of Alaska.  A partial eclipse was visible as far west as India.
Despite scattered clouds in much of the eclipse area, scientists were
confident they had taken useful pictures.  Native peoples celebrated
the event with cheering, dancing, drums, festivals and indigenous
rituals.  The Chinese first recorded a total solar eclipse in 2137
B.C.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890307-0150"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

March 7, 1989, Dateline: Pasadena, California.  A partial solar
eclipse was visible today across much of western North America.
Dozens of people watched it through two types of solar telescopes at
the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena.  Scientists warn
against staring at the sun directly or through inadequate filters.
During this event the greatest blockage of the sun, 80%, occurred in
Anchorage, Alaska.  For any single spot on earth, a partial eclipse
occurs every several years.  Total solar eclipses at any single
location occur roughly every four centuries, though they are visible
from somewhere on earth about every two years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890316-0018"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
Scientists report that a solar eclipse recorded on a Syrian clay
tablet as occurring on May 3, 1375 B.C. really happened about 150
years later on March 5, 1223 B.C.  The scientists compared the
criteria stated on the tablet, e.g., Mars visible, and the likely age
range of the tablet to a list of possible total solar eclipses visible
from Ugarit, where the tablet was found.  Only the later date fit the
bill.  Even so, it would remain the oldest known reliable record of a
total solar eclipse.  The next oldest is a Chinese record from the
Eight Century B.C.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901231-0012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Mexico's President has appointed a Cabinet-level commission to prepare
for "the solar eclipse of the century" on July 11, 1991.  It will pass
through 14 of Mexico's 31 states.  The 165-mile-wide path will go dark
for almost seven minutes, the maximum length for a total solar
eclipse.  Most hotels along the route are already full.  Tourism
officials are seeking private homes, campgrounds, schools, auditoriums
and even ships to house the expected influx.  Some 13,500 amateur and
professional astronomers from around the world have confirmed
reservations.  Baja California Sur, due to its cloudless days, is
considered the best place to watch.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06161012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
 
One of the longest total eclipses this century will pass from Hawaii
through the southern Baja California peninsula into central Brazil.
The "Period of totality" will last the longest in the town of Tuxpan
on Mexico's west coast.  Hawaii and Baja are the prime spots because
they offer the best chance of cloudless skies.  50,000 to 70,000 sun
watchers are expected at each place.  Accommodations and
transportation to these places are totally booked.  Mexican
authorities will turn back travelers in the Baja who do not have
written proof of accommodations.  Airlines may also be very
overbooked.  This could get ugly.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06189077"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
  
Thousands are preparing to witness the July 11 total eclipse of the
sun.  Talismans of all sorts, protective viewing lenses and "power
vortex" energy gathering crystals are being sold at locations along
the eclipse's path.  Meanwhile, authorities in the primary viewing
areas, Mexico's Baja California Sur and the big island of Hawaii are
concerned that the infrastructure may not be adequate to accommodate
the expected crowds. Hawaii is expecting 30,000 more tourists than the
normal 18,000 for this time of year.  Transportation systems will be
strained. Further, everyone is being warned extensively about serious
eye damage caused by improper viewing.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191174"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
       
The sun, although 400 times wider than the moon, is also 400 times
farther away from the earth.  Thus, twice a year, when their orbits
line up, an eclipse occurs.  Fewer than a third are total.  Any point
on earth is eclipsed just once every 360 years.  In the U.S, the 1991
eclipse, one of the centuries best, will be better than those of 1970
and 1979.  Scientists discovered helium and confirmed Einstein's
theory of bending light through eclipse studies.  This time,
astronomers will study the sun's upper atmosphere, 11-year sunspot
cycle, solar wind and why its outer atmosphere is much hotter than its
inner.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06192123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
     
Millions of Californians will pause the morning of July 11 to watch a
partial solar eclipse that will be the longest lasting until the year
2132.  In the Bay area, 63% of the sun will be covered.  A total
eclipse will be seen in Mexico and Hawaii.  Sales of Mylar plastic
eyeshades, supposed safe for eclipse viewing, are brisk.  Orion
Telescope in Cupertino sold its entire stock of 900 in 24 hours.  Many
public and private organizations, associations and societies are
setting up special equipment and safe viewing sites for the public.
Sites and phone numbers for additional information is available.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193081"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
      
From Hawaii to Mexico to Central America, more than 40 million people
saw the moon obscure all or much of the sun.  In the Bay area, more
than half the sun was covered when the eclipse peaked at 11:20 a.m.
As totality arrived at Hawaii, a cloud layer hid the sun.  Three of
ten scientific experiments at the astronomy observatory atop
13,800-foot Mauna Kea were thwarted.  In San Jose, people used Mylar
glasses, pinhole cameras, welder's glass and an interference
birefrigent hydrogen alpha filter telescope to view the event.  In
Hawaii, entrepreneurs hawked eclipse t-shirts, hats, posters and
cookies.  Even haircuts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193235"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
    
In San Jose, the eclipse will begin at 10:10 a.m., peak at 11:20 and
end at 12:34 p.m.  Do not look at it through film negatives, a camera
viewfinder or sunglasses.  Use special Mylar glasses or punch a hole
in a piece of paper and look downward at the shadow.  You will sense
the eclipse better from a mountaintop or from your roof.  Most of the
Bay area is expected to be sunny.  However, it may still be foggy
along the coast.  Do not look at the sun through the fog.  The next
major eclipse will be in another 151 years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900721-0110"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
       
A total eclipse will arc from southeast Finland, across northeastern
U.S.S.R to the Alaskan Aleutian Islands.  The best place for
observation will be in the Soviet Union.  In Helsinki, the total
eclipse begins at 4:52 a.m. and will last 83 seconds.  Best viewing in
Finland will be in Joensuu, where about 10,000 people, including 3000
foreigners are expected to converge.  In Joensuu the sun will be 5
degrees above the horizon, compared with 1 degree above in Helsinki.
Skies may be cloudy.  Some viewers will be above the clouds.  Finnair,
the national airline, and some private companies are offering eclipse
viewing flights.</SUM>
