<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
With the ever-increasing number of two-paycheck families, working
parents are facing the need to obtain affordable and quality child
care.

The search is not an easy task. Turning to a high profile agency is
not a guarantee of reliable service.  Most agencies do a good job but
some do not.  Complaints include unchecked references, deficient
screening, broken contracts, and unrefunded fees.  Child care is
plagued by a lack of employee standards, low pay and educational
levels.

Once satisfactory child care is found, statistics show that one-half
of employed mothers change their child care service once each year. It
is an expensive disruption for employees and for parents.

Money is often a major factor in child care.  A 1977-1987 Census
Bureau survey expresses concern about the affordability of child care
by the poor. It also reports that poor families use about one-fourth
of their annual income on child care; higher income parents spend
about one-sixth.

Parents are not alone in feeling the money crunch for child
care. Kinder Care Learning Centers, Incorporated, the nation's largest
day care center, is struggling to restructure its debt.  The
corporation brought back a former head of the company who is a
financial expert.

Small firms offering child care to parent employees have a difficult
time in the manipulation of scarce resources.

Large corporations with parent employees are beginning to pool their
resources in establishing care centers. This ensues from the cost of
child care and the loss of worker productivity from child care
worries.  Corporate dollars are making a difference in the solution of
some child care problems.

The Internal Revenue Service has recently come to the rescue of small
at-home day care centers.  This relief to providers precludes both the
payment of higher taxes and an increase in care charges.

The involvement of companies in care centers as described above can be
a boon to parents but it also has its legal pitfalls.  These dangers
include the unequal distribution by employers of child care benefits
to a select few or to only one sex.  Companies often do not recognize
such legal pitfalls.

To meet parent demands, some centers are expanding their services to
24-hour operations and there is some movement to establish standards.
Physical plants are being enlarged to offer more facilities, such as
those for sick children.  These changes will be welcome news for
parents. 
</SUM>

