
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910822-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910822-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Sen. Gore Won't Seek Presidency in '92;
   Democrats' Hopes Appear More Tattered
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Democratic Party's gloomy presidential
prospects dimmed even further when one of its potentially
strongest candidates, Sen. Albert Gore, announced he wouldn't
run in 1992.
   Sen. Gore said his decision was based on personal
considerations: "My family -- my wife and four young children
-- are more important than politics and personal ambition."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Tennessee senator is the latest in a string of
Democrats to bow out of the race. These include Sens. Bill
Bradley of New Jersey and Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia,
and Rep. Richard Gephardt of Missouri.
   Currently, the only announced candidate is former
Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas; Iowa's liberal Democratic
senator, Tom Harkin, is likely to declare next month. Neither
of these candidates, however, is considered very formidable,
and either would be a prohibitive underdog in a general
election against George Bush.
   Thus, the Gore announcement is likely to focus anew the
spotlight on New York Gov. Mario Cuomo. The New York
governor, who delights in causing press speculation about his
intentions, says he has no plans to run but won't rule out
changing his mind.
   As a candidate, Gov. Cuomo would have clear weaknesses --
in particular, his identification as a New York liberal,
which wouldn't play well in much of the South, and his
state's financial woes, which would make it tougher to
capitalize on the economic issue nationally. But his
commanding presence and intellect privately worry some top
Bush strategists, and generally he's rated the Democrats'
strongest candidate by political experts from both parties.
   "Cuomo is the only semi-heavyweight left in the Democratic
field," said Douglas Bailey, a Republican strategist. The New
York governor, he thinks, would have problems but still would
be a substantial challenger: "It isn't as hard for the public
to imagine a President Cuomo dealing with this week's crisis
as it would be the others."
   Several other candidates may yet jump in. Virginia Gov. L.
Douglas Wilder is mulling a bid, although the nation's first
black governor has lost some luster lately in a messy
political and legal feud with Sen. Charles Robb (D., Va.).
Two-time presidential candidate and civil rights leader Jesse
Jackson hasn't said what he'll do yet, although several
Jackson intimates believe he's more likely to skip 1992. In
recent weeks former, California Gov. Edmund Brown Jr. has
been making sounds about elevating his comeback hopes from a
Senate race to a presidential quest. This brings only smiles
from Republican strategists.
   Other than Gov. Cuomo, the most promising possible
aspirant may be Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton. He has won
considerable praise for his achievements during his 10 1/2
years as governor, and at 45 years of age is an attractive,
forceful and telegenic campaigner. But he's untested in
national politics and foreign policy.
   By contrast, Sen. Gore was tested politically when he ran
a reasonably respectable race in the 1988 Democratic
primaries. He also has foreign policy credentials aided by
his support for the Persian Gulf war.
   Undoubtedly, personal considerations were a major factor
in the Tennessee Democrat's decision. He noted that his
eight-year-old son was critically injured in an automobile
accident two years ago, and it's known that he worried that
the time and distance of a presidential campaign would be
very hard on his children. Other Gore advisers worried that
it's going to be tough for anyone to defeat George Bush, and
two consecutive losing quests might end the presidential
hopes of the 43-year-old moderate Democrat.
   But Sen. Gore insisted if it weren't for the family
factors, he would have run. "I honestly believe that next
year could be a very tough one for President Bush," he said
in an interview. "The economy is anemic at best, and the
president has no program for economic recovery or health care
or any domestic agenda at all. He is vulnerable to a well-run
Democratic campaign."
   However, nobody yet has come up with the Democrat to lead
such a campaign.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

