
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ911004-0218
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
911004-0218.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   Gates's Opponents
   Blame Him
   For Being Right
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
10/04/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<NS>
POLITICS (PLT)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<RE>
EASTERN EUROPE (EEU)
EUROPE (EU)
FAR EAST (FE)
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
SOVIET UNION (UR)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   In April 1986, on the day of the Libyan bombing raid, four
men briefed Ronald Reagan in the Oval Office on the coming
economic crisis in the Soviet Union.
   They were Andrew Marshall, who judges the world military
balance for the Pentagon, Henry Rowen of Stanford, Charles
Wolf of Rand, and Vladimir Treml of Duke. Not one was from
the CIA, and only Mr. Treml was a Soviet scholar. Who was the
man who instigated their far-seeing, icon-busting study?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert Gates.
   Yes, the same Robert Gates who is President Bush's nominee
as CIA director and is described by his enemies as a
politicizing, brook-no-dissent enforcer for Bill Casey.
   "I think he's getting a bum rap," says Mr. Wolf, who is so
esteemed as a political economist he's routinely consulted by
Pentagon bigshots. "The notion that Bob Gates quelled dissent
isn't fair. He's the main reason I got into this issue. The
charge he gave us was to look at all the evidence and see if
the CIA was far off in its view of the Soviet economy and
military spending."
   "Far off" is putting it kindly. The Rowen-Wolf study
remains classified, but spook-watchers know it's the only
U.S. study that correctly assessed Soviet economic collapse
and its consequences for the Soviet military and empire.
   Meanwhile, our salaried spooks were asleep at their
stereotypewriters. Even after Mr. Wolf and friends showed
otherwise, CIA Sovietologists clung to their belief that the
Soviet economy was "muddling through" at more than half the
size of our own. Defense spending was said to be only 15% of
GNP.
   The Rowen-Wolf team figured the Soviet economy was less
than one-third the size of ours, with defense spending at 25%
or more of GNP, suggesting that something had to give. The
Rowen-Wolf findings have since been acknowledged by Russians,
not to mention by events. Comparing the Rowen-Wolf figures
with the CIA's in the Oval Office in 1986, the Gipper
quipped, "Yours look right to me."
   Yet, in a supreme irony, Robert Gates is now the man in
the dock for having failed to predict the demise of the
Soviet Union. Even more perversely, he's accused by CIA
analysts from the very same school of Sovietapology that
misunderstood the nature of the Soviet crisis. Mr. Gates's
travail proves that in Washington it's dangerous to be wrong,
but it's usually fatal to be right.
   Why does this revisionism sell? In part because of
politics. Democratic Sens. Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Bill
Bradley, who are smart enough to understand the real CIA
failure, want to discredit U.S. defense spending during the
1980s. They also want to show that their party's post-Vietnam
dovishness wasn't wrong after all. If they can show Mr. Gates
didn't foresee the Soviet collapse, they think they can
discredit the hard-line Reagan policies he supported.
   This is also ironic, because the Rowen-Wolf team was
actually the hard-line team; they figured U.S. pressure would
make a struggling empire collapse even sooner. Last week at
Washington's Carnegie Endowment, Vladimir Lukin, a Boris
Yeltsin foreign-policy adviser, said that such policies as
the Reagan Doctrine and SDI "accelerated our economic
convulsions by perhaps five years." Maybe the Senate should
invite Russians to defend Mr. Gates.
   The other force at work is what one source calls "the
revenge of the nerds," or the CIA bureaucracy. Mr. Gates was
part of a Reagan vanguard that wanted to make intelligence
better serve U.S. foreign policy. "I was hired to change
things," he told the Senate yesterday.
   Yet over the years a hidebound bureaucracy at the CIA
began to think of itself as the repository of truth; they
were "objective," while elected policy-makers were
"political." In the real world, of course, it's absurd to
think that career analysts don't also have their own
"political" views.
   This mindset is drummed into analysts the minute they set
foot in Langley, though. In an eye-popping outline for one
instructor's CIA orientation course (provided by an
informant), there are said to be two different "schools" of
"intelligence and policy-making."
   The outline describes one as the "traditional" CIA school,
which is said to wear "white hats." The other school,
described as "modernist," is said to wear "black hats." And
the greenhorn CIA analysts are told that the "Godfather" of
the black hats is none other than "Bob Gates."
   According to the outline, the white hats think sound
policy "starts with realities," while the black hats favor
"political considerations." The whites stress "foreign
constraints," while the Gatesian black-hatters look to "U.S.
opportunities." The white hat school "prevails among
academics" and "congressional Democrats," while the black
hats include "Casey and the 1981 CIA transition team."
   Even if this is exaggerated by the instructor to make a
point, it suggests how badly the CIA bureaucracy needs to be
shaken up, especially after the Cold War. Mr. Gates's critics
don't want him confirmed because they know that as a "black
hat" he's exactly the man to do the shaking. Sen. Moynihan
has proposed that the CIA be abolished and transferred to the
State Department. If Bob Gates isn't confirmed, Mr. Bush
should take him up on the offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

