
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ911106-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
911106-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gates Approved
   As CIA Director
   In Senate Vote
   ---
   Decision Ends Long Process
   That Uncovered Flaws
   In Agency's Performance
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
11/06/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate approved the nomination of Robert
Gates to be the next director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, ending a long confirmation process that exposed
serious weaknesses in the CIA's performance over the past
decade.
   The 64-31 rollcall represents a personal triumph for the
48-year-old national security aide, who saw the same job
elude him in 1987 in the aftermath of the Iran-Contra affair.
A protege of the late CIA Director William Casey, Mr. Gates
has been haunted by the abuses of that period. His challenge
now will be to show he has learned from the past and can lead
the agency in the post-Cold War world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Continued doubts about his credibility could make Defense
Secretary Richard Cheney and National Security Adviser Brent
Scowcroft more powerful in overseeing U.S. intelligence. But
friends contend Mr. Gates will move quickly to assert his
independence and be a voice for the CIA.
   "I don't think Cheney will run over him, I don't think
Scowcroft will either," said Sen. William Cohen (R., Maine).
"His challenge will be to reshape that agency, and he will
grow faster than people think."
   A former Soviet analyst and masterful bureaucrat, Mr.
Gates is the first career CIA officer to be director in
nearly two decades. His climb owes much to the loyalties of
Senate Intelligence Chairman David Boren (D., Okla.) and
President Bush, a former CIA director who has been criticized
himself regarding his performance as vice president during
the Casey years.
   The confirmation process, stretching over four months,
became at times a proxy war that touched on Mr. Bush's own
knowledge of the secret war with Nicaragua and U.S. arms
sales to Iran in the mid-1980s. Loyal Republicans sought to
suppress questions regarding that affair. Mr. Gates also was
questioned about the CIA's tilt during the same period toward
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, in which Mr. Bush also played
a part as a member of the National Security Council.
   Sen. Boren's support for Mr. Gates was crucial. Working in
tandem with Mr. Gates, the Oklahoma conservative privately
courted senior members in recent weeks. Senate Foreign
Relations Committee Chairman Claiborne Pell (D., R.I.), for
example, met separately with Mr. Gates and Sen. Boren, and
Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.) said his
vote to confirm rested largely on Mr. Boren's commitment to
the nominee.
   Mr. Nunn's decision doomed any chance that opponents, led
by Sen. Bill Bradley (D., N.J.), would succeed. Yet the
Georgia lawmaker voiced discomfort with the choice he had
made. "I'm not going to pretend I have no doubts," he said.
   Central to these doubts is testimony from Mr. Gates's
former colleagues that he suppressed dissent within the CIA
and tailored intelligence reports to suit Mr. Casey's
conservative agenda. The confirmation hearings offered a rare
glimpse of bitter infighting at the CIA.
   In his own Senate testimony, Mr. Gates appeared to be a
man torn between his background as an intellectual and his
political ambitions to rise in the bureaucracy. For example,
he told senators with pride of an October 1986 memo in which
he argued for more sensitivity to changes in Soviet society,
yet days later he delivered a controversial speech to advance
the Strategic Defense Initiative.
   "Pleasing the boss is this brilliant man Gates's
weakness," said Sen. Ernest Hollings (D., S.C.).
</TEXT>
</DOC>

