
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ911002-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
911002-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Gates Hearings
   Suggest Fights
   Damaged CIA
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
10/02/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<MS>
TECHNOLOGY (TEC)
</MS>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<NS>
POLITICS (PLT)
TRADE ISSUES (TRD)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<RE>
CENTRAL AMERICA (CME)
IRAQ (IZ)
MIDDLE EAST (ML)
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
NICARAGUA (NU)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate hearings on Robert Gates suggest that
bitter ideological and management fights in the Central
Intelligence Agency distorted the U.S. perception of the
Soviet threat in the 1980s and skewed American decisions
leading to the Iran-Contra affair.
   Appearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee,
experienced CIA analysts split sharply over the merits of Mr.
Gates's nomination to head the agency. But the net impact of
the day-long testimony -- and documents released by the panel
-- was to damage the former CIA deputy, whose intellectual
integrity and political independence have been questioned by
some senators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hal Ford, a longtime veteran of the intelligence field,
bluntly told the committee that Mr. Gates exerted pressure on
lower-ranking analysts that went "beyond professional bounds
and clearly constitute{d} a skewing of intelligence."
Referring to testimony by Mr. Gates, in which the nominee
failed to remember key events related to his tenure at the
CIA, Mr. Ford said: "I'm sorry to say it, but the word that
for me captures his testimony is `clever.' The forgetfulness
of this brilliant officer -- gifted with photographic memory
-- does not to me instill confidence."
   Mr. Gates rose rapidly at the agency in the 1980s under
then-Director William Casey. In often emotional, biting
terms, a second former colleague portrayed the nominee as
pandering to the conservative, anti-Soviet outlook of Mr.
Casey. "Gates's role . . . was to corrupt the process and the
ethics of intelligence," said Melvin Goodman, who battled Mr.
Gates as a member of the Soviet analysis section of the CIA's
intelligence division. "He was Casey's filter in the
Directorate of Intelligence. He protected Casey's equity."
   Among the documents released yesterday are previously
classified papers showing that the CIA's top management
pressed for a 1985 analysis making the case for possible
Soviet complicity in the attempted assassination of Pope John
Paul II. Mr. Gates will have an opportunity to defend himself
before the panel, but the papers lend support to allegations
that he failed to accurately represent the framework of the
study, whose own authors admitted it lacked balance.
   In addition, although the nominee has sought to play down
his role in the early stages of the Reagan administration's
arms sales to Iran in the mid-1980s, the new documents
suggest he lent support in May 1985 to a CIA memorandum that
served Mr. Casey's purposes in supporting selective arms
sales through third countries such as Israel or Brazil.
   Graham Fuller, the paper's author and then a senior CIA
officer for the Mideast, angrily rejected suggestions that he
had been used by Mr. Gates or Mr. Casey. But he acknowledged
that Mr. Gates supported his decision to reject objections by
the CIA's own Soviet analysts that the memo was premised on
an overblown view of Moscow's influence in Tehran.
   Yesterday's testimony goes to the heart of the
intelligence-gathering process and what senators see as the
committee's mandate to protect the independence of the CIA.
After weeks of generally neutral testimony piecing together
the facts of the Iran-Contra affair, the voices at
yesterday's session were pointed and personal. Rarely have
the inner workings of intelligence analysis been so exposed,
and the atmospherics combined the cattiness of a college
faculty spat and the sporting competition of stepping into a
ring.
   Mr. Fuller expressed dismay that the "grays" of
intellectual differences had become transformed by Mr.
Gates's critics into a "black and white picture of evil." In
his own testimony, however, the former analyst said Mr. Gates
had been slow to recognize changes in the Soviet Union in the
mid-1980s. And he said that pressures and an unhealthy split
within the agency appeared to have damaged promising young
analysts.
   Jennifer Glaudemans, a 32-year-old former Soviet analyst,
has told the committee of Mr. Gates dressing down an
embarrassed colleague in front of others because his views
were inconsistent with Reagan administration policy regarding
Libya. And in a series of anecdotes, Mr. Goodman, now a
professor at the National War College, portrayed the rising
young deputy as heavy-handed in suppressing dissent over the
Soviet role in the Third World.
   Mr. Gates, an ardent proponent of aid to the Afghan
resistance, overstated the impact of new weaponry given to
the guerrillas, Mr. Goodman said, and quashed analysis
challenging the military effectiveness of the disparate
factions opposed to the Soviet-backed government in Kabul. In
the case of Libya, Mr. Goodman recalled a Gates memo in the
1980s that advocated U.S. bombing to "change the map of the
region," and when analysts wouldn't give Mr. Gates what he
wanted, the former deputy shopped around for one who would,
the professor said.
   "At one point in the coordination process," Mr. Goodman
said of a paper related to the Soviet threat in Africa, "Bob
Gates says, `This is the paper that Casey wants, and this is
the paper that Casey is going to get.'"
   The late director had an early preoccupation with any
evidence of Soviet involvement in terrorism, and in this
context, the assassination attempt on the Pope was a cause
celebre -- and source of angry disputes in the agency. The
1985 analysis now at issue was structured to make a best case
for Moscow's involvement, and though a cover note first
explained these conditions, it was later dropped before
publication. Mr. Gates, then head of the intelligence
division, circulated the paper under his own note praising
the paper as "comprehensive," but a subsequent CIA review
criticized the product as "spotty" and suffering from being
rushed through by management without due attention given to
conflicting evidence.
   "We found no compelling reasons to rush this paper to
completion without benefit of all expert views," reads the
critique, which had been classified. "Our interviews have not
unearthed any reason except management's desires to finish it
quickly. Moreover, everyone we talked to who was involved in
the review and coordination process views the shape and the
tone of the key findings, and the deletion of the explanatory
scope note, as having been inspired, if not directed by the
seventh floor," a reference to the top management offices at
CIA headquarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

