
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910509-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910509-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Robert Gates
   Is Front-Runner
   For CIA Post
   ---
   Webster's Resignation Gives
   Bush the Opportunity
   To Name Close Associate
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/09/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<NS>
PERSONNEL ANNOUNCEMENTS, PROMOTIONS, APPOINTMENTS (PER)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Central Intelligence Agency Director William
Webster resigned, giving President Bush a chance to name a
close associate as the nation's chief intelligence official
and to reshape his national security team.
   Administration officials said the leading contender to
succeed Mr. Webster, who was appointed by President Ronald
Reagan in 1987, is Deputy National Security Adviser Robert
Gates, a former deputy CIA chief. Also reportedly under
consideration is James Lilley, ambassador to China, another
former CIA official and a friend of the president. Officials
say Mr. Bush also may be considering former intelligence
official Bobby Inman, and surprise candidates such as New
Hampshire Republican Sen. Warren Rudman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Gates wants the top intelligence job, officials say.
He was nominated for the post before Mr. Webster, but
withdrew his name because of criticism that he failed to halt
secret arms sales to Iran during the Reagan years. Officials
predict his cause is likely to be boosted by National
Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, with whom he has worked
exceptionally closely since the beginning of the Bush
administration.
   Asked about a Gates appointment, the president said, "I
haven't considered successors yet," but he called Mr. Gates
"a worthy man" and said, "We all have great respect for him."
   Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman David Boren (D.,
Okla.), who was a critic of Mr. Gates in 1987, said, "If the
president were to nominate Bob Gates, my inclination would be
to support him." He said that the Iran scandal investigations
"never found anything that raised questions about his {Mr.
Gates'} involvement." Sen. William Cohen (R., Maine), who is
influential on intelligence issues, also said, "I think Gates
should get the job."
   Mr. Bush said the Webster resignation was the 67-year-old
CIA chief's idea, and was made final in a telephone call
Tuesday night. At an early morning news conference yesterday,
the president went out of his way to stress that Mr. Webster
wasn't being forced out.
   "He has done a superb job," the president declared. "I
hate to see him go." He said the departure was unrelated to
any criticism of the intelligence community performance
during the Persian Gulf war, asserting that "the intelligence
was outstanding and the community performed fantastically."
He declared, "I have no complaints whatsoever about the
quality of our intelligence."
   In an interview, Mr. Webster, a former Federal Bureau of
Investigation director and longtime federal judge, said, "I
can tell you categorically that no one has suggested to me
that it was time to go, certainly not the president or anyone
acting on his behalf."
   He said he acted for personal reasons, including a desire
to practice law. But he also added that, ever since Mr. Bush
asked him following the 1988 election to remain at the CIA,
"I knew that at some point he would probably like to
invigorate his own administration by appointing someone of
his own choice."
   Mr. Webster said he wanted to move now because "the war
has just been completed, we're adjusting to a very different
kind of world, and I am coming up on four years in the job"
May 26.
   CIA officials praised Mr. Webster for improving the
government's efforts against terrorism, narcotics dealing,
and foreign spying.
   Nevertheless, the resignation comes at a time when private
sniping at Mr. Webster is mounting. Mr. Scowcroft and other
White House officials privately have been critical of the
low-key intelligence boss, who is seen as too close to
Congress and insufficiently aggressive.
   Mr. Webster's strong support in Congress has faded a bit
in recent months as well. The CIA has been criticized for
failing to flatly predict Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, and Mr.
Webster wasn't a visible figure in the planning and conduct
of the war.
   There have been news reports based on these criticisms,
but the president himself has supported Mr. Webster
repeatedly. Mr. Bush, who was a cautious figure himself
during his own tenure at the CIA in the 1970s, said yesterday
that he doesn't believe the CIA chief should seek to assert
himself as a policy maker.
   Both congressional intelligence committees currently are
mounting efforts to reorganize the spy agencies Mr. Webster
oversees, with the aim in part of creating a stronger
director's post. Rep. David McCurdy (D., Okla.), chairman of
the house panel, praised Mr. Webster for starting to move the
agency in the right direction. But he said, "It probably is
an appropriate time to hand over the reins to someone else as
we head into reorganization."
   Mr. Webster was widely praised yesterday as honest and
willing to accept congressional oversight, in contrast to his
predecessor, William Casey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

