<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880331-0140"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">      

In Texas an average of 118 tornadoes occur annually, most in April
through June, with an average of 36 in May. A tornado watch means
weather conditions are suitable for tornado development. A warning
means one has already developed. At home, take cover underground or in
a central closet or bathroom, or lie under a heavy table. Opening
windows to equalize air pressure is not necessary. Leave your car or
mobile home and get into the nearest ditch. Don't try to outrun a
twister in your car.  Most fatalities are from flying debris so keep a
low profile and cover your head.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880419-0131"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

A tornado hit the North Florida town of Madison at 4:30am today,
killing four people and injuring 15. Two deaths occurred when mobile
homes blew apart. The tornado touched down in front of a shopping
center and proceeded straight into North Florida Junior College,
totaling the new library and taking the roof off the auditorium. In
under 30 minutes it cut a 12-mile swath of destruction. The tornado
was spawned by a belt of thunderstorms being pushed by a cold
front. High winds, heavy rain, lightning, and hail occurred across the
southeast. Two other tornadoes struck 100 miles west.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890227-0016"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

In the transition from winter to spring, hot weather stirs the air and
helps form thunderstorms and tornadoes, violently twisting winds
reaching down from thunderclouds. Tornadoes increase in March and peak
in May, averaging 166 that month, but they can occur any
month. November's average is 23 but last year unusually warm and wet
weather helped trigger 121. Tornadoes are most likely between noon and
sunset and least likely just before sunrise. Typically they are 50
yards wide and travel two miles on the ground, usually heading
northeast, and often come in groups. Tornado deaths are down due to
increased public awareness.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890403-0123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

Tornadoes can occur any month but are more frequent April through
June, between 3 and 6pm. The thunderstorm portion adjacent to large
hail is most likely to produce tornadoes.  Tornadoes mostly travel
northeast but can stand still or spiral erratically. Average speed is
30 mph but can reach 70. Violent tornadoes (less than 2%) have wind
speeds over 200 mph and a 26-mile long path. The longest tornado on
record went 219 miles across Missouri, Illinois and Indiana in March
1925. The largest outbreak was in April 1974 when 148 storms killed
300 people in 13 states over two days.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0115"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

A Wednesday tornado, one of a series in an arc spanning 7 states,
hopped a 25-mile path and carved a 3-mile stretch through Huntsville,
plowing through a school, shopping mall, apartments and rural
areas. It killed 17, injured 463 and left 1,000 homeless. Most dead
were in apartments, stores or cars. Wind, rain, and temperatures
plummeting to the 30s hampered the search for victims. A tornado watch
was issued earlier in the day but the tornado warning did not come
until 4:39pm, when the twister was already tearing up the city,
sounding like a jet at close range and bringing a deluge of
water.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0191"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

Tornadoes and severe thunderstorms killed at least 27 people
Wednesday. The worst hit was Huntsville, Alabama, where 17 people were
killed and 1000 left homeless.  A Kentucky storm believed to be a
tornado cut a mile-long swath of destruction through the town of
Flaherty. Tornadoes were also reported in Mississippi, Georgia, North
and South Carolina, Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania, West Virginia,
Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, and New York. Thunderstorms and high
winds were also wide-spread and caused power outages and other
damage. They caused deaths in Illinois and New York, where a tree
falling on an elementary school roof killed 7 children.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900619-0006"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

1990 is one of the worst tornado years on record, with 726 storms so
far compared to the 6-month average of 482.  Persistent West Coast low
pressure in the upper atmosphere is keeping the jet stream anchored at
a southern latitude, but as summer warms the land, cold air from
Canada will retreat and the jet stream will move north. Studies
indicate tornadoes concentrate in regions for 5-6 years. This year a
Kansas tornado's winds reached 300 mph and 101 tornadoes touched down
in one weekend, leaving 9 dead.  Computers giving access to many data
sources are improving tornado warnings, leading to fewer deaths.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070190-0073"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

World authority Tetsuya Theodore Fujita has studied tornadoes for 42
years. In his University of Chicago lab he creates miniature
tornadoes, with a bottom fan making a swirling motion and a top fan
simulating a low-pressure system's updraft. Miniature versions, like
real tornadoes, are impossible to redirect or squelch. Single, large
thunderstorms are likelier to produce tornadoes than groups of storms,
which compete to rotate "which they all can't do." Most strong
tornadoes are actually 6-7 small ones rotating around a larger
tornado's center. The Fujita Scale ranks tornado strength, with a zero
breaking twigs on trees and a five ripping houses from
foundations.</SUM>
