<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="WSJ920312-0114 WSJ920206-0058 WSJ870428-0106 WSJ911008-0132
FT924-11880 FT941-15870 FT921-12198 FBIS3-57782 AP900608-0009
WSJ920214-0040"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 
     
William J. Clinton was elected governor of Arkansas in 1979 when he
was 32 years old.  He had always aimed for the top--and he started
young.

Born William Jefferson Blythe IV (later Clinton), his father died
before his birth. His grandmother helped raised him and taught him to
read by the age of three.  But he credits his mother with teaching him
how to think.  His house became a meeting place where wide ranging
discussions of dating, basketball, racial justice and desegregation
took place.
 
Clinton won many awards at school. Inspired by a meeting with
President Kennedy while on a school trip, he went on to attend
Georgetown, Oxford (a Rhodes Scholar) and Yale Law.  He married
Hillary Rodham and they had one daughter, Chelsea.

During the Vietnam war, Clinton obtained a draft deferment which would
haunt him later.  Attending Oxford, he verbally agreed to join ROTC at
the University of Arkansas but he went on to Yale instead.  Later he
submitted to the draft lottery, drawing a high, safe number.

Clinton made many friends along the way and never let them go, always
keeping in touch.  In later years these friends helped as
fund-raisers, campaign managers and his support while in crisis.

Clinton's first term as governor of Arkansas was unsuccessful. People
resented the arrogant young man. Defeated two years later, many
thought he'd leave Arkansas but he recovered and was elected four more
times.

In his years as governor, Clinton's biggest successes were improved
education, a better economy and welfare reforms.

In Little Rock, the Clintons invested in a real estate venture,
Whitewater.  Meanwhile, Madison Savings and Loan, partial bankroller
for Whitewater, was failing. When Madison folded it cost taxpayers $50
million.  Charges and rumors stemming from these events haunted the
Clintons for years.
 
Womanizing was another issue that followed Clinton from Arkansas to
Washington.  Gennifer Flowers claimed a 12 year affair with Clinton,
which he denied during an appearance on "Sixty Minutes."  He did admit
to marriage problems.

An editorial by Kurt Kister in Munich sums up Clinton's early days as
President: Clinton made many early blunders both on domestic and
foreign issues.  A year later he enjoyed a 60 percent popularity, the
economy is up, prices stable and interest and the deficit down.
Clinton reestablished America's faith in itself.  </SUM>
