<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911008-0132"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

William Jefferson Clinton started life deprived of a father who died
before his birth and a mother away at nursing school.  Raised by his
grandmother, he could read and count by the age of three.  He excelled
all through school, winning honor after honor.  Later he went to
Georgetown, to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar and to Yale Law School.

Returning to Arkansas, anxious to improve his backward state, he was
elected governor at the age of 32. He was defeated at the next
election, but subsequently reelected four times.

Clinton's successes as governor include increased funding for schools
and higher standards of education.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT924-11880"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   
 
Republican George Bush claims Clinton has governed poorly in Arkansas.
This article is an assessment of Clinton's governorship.

Arkansas still ranks number 47 in income in the United States.  Per
capita income has not changed.

His first term was a failure.  He stepped on too many toes, charged in
"like a knight on a white horse," wanting to change everything.  His
term out of office matured him.

Real progress came in the areas of education and economic development,
with some inroads into welfare reform.

Mr. Clinton failed to make improvements in the areas of the
environment, civil rights or health care.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870428-0106"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Bill Clinton has to decide whether to leave Arkansas and run for
president, or to remain and guard his legacy.  The Arkansas
constitution mandates that whenever the governor leaves the state,
power passes to the Lieutenant Governor or the Senate President Pro
Tem.  Once before when he left, the President Pro Tem made twenty
appointments and demoted his chief of staff. Clinton, intensely
ambitious, is torn; possibly he could be a long-shot presidential
candidate.

He was elected governor at 32, defeated once, then reelected for four
more terms.

His accomplishments include educational reforms: he raised the sales
tax, investing the proceeds in improved schools.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-15870"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 
   
Controversy over the Clintons' unsuccessful Whitewater venture and the
failure of the Madison Savings and Loan goes on.  At the root of the
problem is whether the Clintons' failing investment was propped up by
Madison and whether Clinton, as governor, delayed shutting down
Madison so that could be done.  The Madison failure cost citizens 50
million dollars.

Whitewater files were handled by Vince Foster, who committed suicide
last year.

Neither Clinton nor Janet Reno have yet asked for a Special Counsel to
investigate Whitewater, although pressure to do so is building. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-12198"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  
  
Bill and Hillary Clinton appeared on "Sixty Minutes" yesterday to
refute charges by Gennifer Flowers, an Arkansas state employee and
cabaret singer, that she and Clinton carried on a 12 year affair.
Clinton denied the charges but confessed to "wrongdoing" in his
marriage on the program.

Flowers said the Republican Party in Arkansas had offered her money
six months ago to come forward but she refused. She sold the story to
a tabloid after Clinton angered her.

Clinton took a big risk in the TV appearance just three weeks before
the New Hampshire primary.  Polls show he fell 14 percentage points
last week.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FB153-57782"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

The following is a paraphrase of an editorial by Kurt Kister in the
Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG.

Clinton's early days in office were marked by a near disaster: an ill-
considered attempt to lift the ban on homosexuals in the U.S. Army,
rejection of candidates for important offices and failure to follow
through on campaign promises regarding Haiti and Bosnia.  He seemed to
flounder.

A year later Clinton enjoys a 60% popularity.  The economy is up,
prices stable and interest low.  The deficit is lower and Clinton's
thrift measures have helped attain this goal. The NAFTA treaty was
skillfully handled and a national health plan is in the works.

Clinton seems to have reestablished America's trust in itself.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900608-0009"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Governor Bill Clinton won his sixth straight primary election by 55%,
a drop from previous years.  He has no cause for concern jokingly
citing the "tenure" issue, meaning, "ten years is long enough," used
by his opponent.

He counters, "a business wouldn't fire a 43-year old with ten years of
experience who's doing a good job."

Clinton has focused on improving Arkansas' educational system and
calls himself the candidate of change.

He was elected first in 1978 but lost in 1980.  He won again in '82,
'84, and '86, when the term was increased to four years.  He has
implied that if he is elected this year, he will not run for president
in 1992.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920214-0040"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   
 
Last week the Wall Street Journal published an article on how Clinton
avoided the Vietnam draft.

Like many his age, he wanted a draft deferment. Graduate school
deferments had ended.  His draft board told him he could expect to be
called in the fall of 1969; giving him extra consideration because he
was a Rhodes Scholar.  Clinton went back to Oxford.

Later he found an ROTC program at the University of Arkansas,
promising to enroll. He entered Yale.

Near his induction date, he ended his deferment and was placed in the
draft lottery; a high number ensured his exclusion.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920312-0114"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  
   
Bill Clinton's friends came to his aid when charges of draft dodging
were raised.  A group from Oxford all testified of his anguish over
his draft status.

Later, when the draft and womanizing issues threatened, friends like
San Nunn and Zell Miller came to his rescue.

Mr. Clinton has cultivated friends all his life and always maintained
relationships through calls and notes.  Individuals from Georgetown,
Oxford, Yale and the Renaissance policy organization make up this
group.  They have helped him by raising money, managing campaigns and
defending him in crises.

Clinton knows how to make friends, and how to use them.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920206-0058"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

In 1969 it appeared Bill Clinton would be drafted.  Studying at Oxford
wouldn't help; such deferments had ended in 1966.

The draft board in Arkansas was proud of him and had deferred him to 
go to Oxford, saying he'd be safe till fall, 1969.	
	 
As an out, he agreed in 1969 to join the ROTC at the University of
Arkansas.  He never enrolled, but it protected him during September
and October of 1969.  By October he subjected himself to the draft
lottery knowing that he was unlikely to be called.  He drew 311--and
was safe from induction.  </SUM>
