<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-2650"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  

Lewis Preston is about to take over the World Bank. His problem is how
to promote development and reduce the Third World debt. Programs to
date have not solved this problem.

The U.S. Treasury wants the bank to bypass the governments of
developing countries and invest directly in the private sector. Other
bank managers want to see political strings attached to the World
Bank's loans.  The World Bank's goals of democracy and free markets
are alien to some Third World countries.

The bank's own research department believes that poverty must be
relieved directly and thence education and health care improved.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880621-0079"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Barber Conable was a very respected New York politician prior to being
appointed World Bank president. He is now under fire. Criticism
centers on his bank's inability to reduce the burgeoning Third World
debt.

Some worry that the huge Third World debt will stall growth and thence
create instability.

The bank has followed the conservative fiscal policies of the man who
appointed Conable to his office, Secretary of the Treasury James
Baker. His policy is the one of lending new money rather than reducing
the debt but this often ends up swamping the recipient countries with
interest payments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880926-0203"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

The president of Brazil blames the industrial nations for perpetuating
the poverty of the developing nations.

In West Berlin, the finance ministers of 22 developed or developing
countries demanded action to help Third World countries with their 1.2
trillion dollar debt.

Brazil, the world's most indebted nation with 121 billion in foreign
loans, has been among the most vociferous lobbyists for debt
restructuring and write-offs.

There is an imbalance in trade. One group is selling its wares cheaply
and buying those of others dearly.

The seven key industrialized nations have approved a plan to aid the
world's poorest countries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA091889-0088"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Third World debtors paid 50 billion dollars more last year than they
received in new loans just to service their debt.

Economic progress by the Third World has been mixed, from a mini- boom
in Southeast Asia to further impoverishment in Africa.

The figures on the cash drain from Third World countries are
mushrooming rapidly. This is a prime indicator of the strain that the
global debt is putting on the Third World. The debt of the Third World
is 993 billion dollars and growing. Greater efforts are needed by the
industrial nations to reduce Third World debt.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871216-0037"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

The Bank of Boston has begun a new policy in banking circles. It has
written-off as uncollectible loans to Third World countries.

The Bank of Boston, a regional bank, has an advantage over money-
centered banks like those in New York, Chicago and San Francisco. Bank
of Boston has a large loan-loss reserve that the large banks lack.

The inhibiting factor for regional banks is once you have been burned
by the need to write-off a loan, you are much less likely to join any
new such effort.

Other regional banks may follow Bank of Boston's lead.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-12322"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Lewis Preston, World Bank president, vowed to strengthen the bank's
efforts at poverty reduction. He failed to respond to demands from the
U. S. to set goals for poverty reduction. Of concern to the U.S. was
the need to create economic safety nets for the poor affected by wars,
economic hardship and civil strife.

The World Bank currently lends only 14 percent of its loans for human
resource development in spite of a call from its president for greater
emphasis on helping the poor. He declined to set specific targets.

The bank intends to publish annual reports on the bank's
progress.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-5176"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Lord Bauer, House of Lords, makes the following comments to "Letters
to the Editor," Financial Times, from a Mr. Skinner:

a. Skinner charged Bauer with misunderstanding the debt burden of poor
countries. Bauer comments that the loans do not increase with
inflation and are at zero interest. Further, these loans are often
canceled or rescheduled.

b. Skinner claimed that Africa's poverty is externally-caused. Bauer
believes that it is domestically-caused by government policies.

c. Bauer believes that the poor are at the bottom of the priority list
of local rulers.

d.Skinner's encouragement of default is counter-productive. Bauer
points to the success of Southeast Asia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900416-0188"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

John Hatch happened upon a novel idea. His idea was something called
"village banking." This system is a means of investment using small
loans to poor women to finance their own private enterprise, e.g.,
selling produce, crafts, etc. This arrangement allows them to create
savings while paying interest and thereby qualifying for larger
loans. The "village banking" system has grown to nine countries.

Hatch says he created the system in order to channel money to the
poor, primarily the mothers of children who would otherwise starve to
death.

The women have a loan repayment rate of nearly 100 percent.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910607-0063"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Unlike many conventional systems for making loans in the world, making
a microloan to a Third World small business entrepreneur is almost a
guarantee of repayment. Recipients want the security of a favorable
credit rating. These microloans cancel out the need to get involved
with loan sharks.

Third world banks and large development organizations are making such
loans as well, particularly when they discovered that the repayment
rate by the poor is nearly 100 percent.

Some charitable organizations still prefer to make per-to-person
sponsorships and the teaching of skills to improve the quality of
life.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-8860" 
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 
	
Henceforth, the World Bank will tie loan volume to efforts by a
receiving country to fight poverty.  This new emphasis will make the
aim of alleviation of poverty a central objective by the bank in the
1990's.

The Bank said that poverty assessments by country will be available
within two years.  The assessments will allow the receiving country
and the World Bank to collaborate in a joint effort at poverty
reduction.

The new directive rewards a government with larger loans for a
stronger commitment to poverty reduction; a weaker commitment to
poverty reduction will warrant less support.</SUM>
