<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06067095"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

Black residents in Los Angeles say that the widely publicized King
beating is not news.  Joe Hicks of the ACLU says it happens all the
time.

Rodney King, a black man, was stopped by California Highway patrolmen
and Los Angeles police after a high speed chase. Unresisting, he was
beaten by several officers with night sticks as others stood by.  The
incident was videotaped by a witness, who passed the tape along to
media.

Police claim King resisted arrest; witnesses deny this.

Police misconduct reports rose 75 percent this year, ranging from
illegal search and seizure to death.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06067177"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Los Angeles police wanted prosecutors to charge King with battery on
an officer and resisting arrest, according to his lawyer, Mr. Rentzer,
but the DA refused.  He sent the case back to police for further
investigation.  He also said officers failed to interview available
witnesses, including King's passengers.

The ten officers involved were taken off patrol.
	
King stated he was struck at least forty times as he begged them to
stop, and denied the high speeds he was accused of in the chase.

Two local residents witnessed the incident and one of them videotaped
it, then released the tape to national media.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06132118"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Some policemen standing by during King's beating maintain the arrest
was done correctly, and the Grand Jury has decided against indicting
them for their inaction.  The Civil Liberties Union disagrees.  "I
couldn't be more disappointed," said spokesman Joe Hicks. "We have not
given up on this."

Meanwhile one rookie police officer was fired and three have been
suspended without pay by Chief Darryl Gates, who is investigating the
incident.  Only Gates has the power to discipline officers.

The District Attorney is forwarding the "disturbing interviews" with
bystanding officers to the local independent commission investigating
the police department.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06081020"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Police now say that 21 officers were present as Rodney King was shot
with a stun gun and beaten about the head and body with clubs as he
lay hog-tied on the ground.  Witnesses say he was jovial and
intoxicated when he left his car.  California Highway Patrol officers,
who protested the beating, were ordered off the case by county
policemen, who continued the beating.

Their reports downplayed his injuries; four policemen have been
indicted for false reports and beating a suspect.  Highway Patrol
officers present, upset, took policemen's names and reported the
incident.

King suffered facial and ankle fractures and other injuries.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06106024"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Rodney King spends his time seeing doctors and thinking about his
injuries he fears may become permanent.  He is staying with relatives
and fears retribution by the police.  His ex-wife says he's depressed
and frightened; his attorney has hired guards to protect him.

King suffers headaches and numbness of the face after five hours of
plastic surgery to repair fractures of his cheek and eye bones, and
has instituted an $83 million law suit against the city for excessive
force.

In another development, he's now a suspect in a February 21 robbery
and shooting, a result of the wide publicity.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06081004"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Bryant Allen, a King passenger, gave the first eye-witness account of
King's beating at the hands of police.  He and another passenger were
also manhandled and racially taunted and both are bringing civil
rights suits against the police.  None of the three have been charged.

Allen described King's behavior as erratic while driving that night,
and said he had trouble with his seat belt while trying to leave the
car on police orders.  He also said he heard a female officer tell
others that King had done nothing wrong.

There are calls in Los Angeles for Chief Darryl Gates'
resignation. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06067075"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">
 
Rodney King was released from jail after officers failed to prove he
had resisted arrest after a high speed chase.

Police Chief Darryl Gates called the beating an "aberration" and the
department issued no statements; the LAPD, FBI and California Highway
Patrol are investigating.

The chase began when California Highway Patrol pursued King at high
speed, called for assistance, then pulled him over.  When King left
the highway, the Highway patrolmen were ordered off the investigation,
but observed King being shot by a stun gun, beaten with clubs and
stomped on the head.

Many people in Los Angeles feel that non-anglos are the targets of
police.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06081262"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Bryant Allen, a passenger in Rodney King's car, says he was racially
provoked and made to crawl on the ground as he heard King being
beaten.  Fearing for his own life, he heard King scream, "stop," then
become silent as the sounds of the beating continued.  Another
passenger, Freddie Helms, agrees.  King and his friends are black.

The police officers were white and as many as 21 were present.  Four,
a sergeant and three officers, have been indicted for assault.

Allen, King's friend since childhood, said they had each consumed some
beer, but no drugs.  Tests confirmed this.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06067141"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Rodney King suffered a broken jaw, broken leg and numerous bruises as
he was released from the hospital in a wheelchair.

Meanwhile, a public furor erupted over the incident in which several
policemen beat him as he lay on the ground after a traffic stop.  The
entire incident was videotaped by a nearby resident who then took it
to a local TV station which passed it on to cable news and 30 million
home viewers.

Police officials, FBI and the District Attorney are investigating.

An ACLU spokesman said that the incident was not surprising, that "it
happens all the time."  Mr. King is black.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06066074"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

A motorist, Rodney King, was stopped in Los Angeles after speeding on
a freeway and then running several red lights.

Witnesses said he only left his car after several requests, then was
beaten as he attempted to rise from the ground where officers had
placed him.  The officers then reportedly beat him with night sticks
as they held him down.

The incident was witnessed by three bystanders.  A nearby apartment
resident videotaped the entire incident and the tape was broadcast by
local and national television, stirring public outrage.

Los Angeles County and the FBI have opened investigations into the
matter.  </SUM>
