<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
A series of articles written between July of 1991 and January of 1992
by staff reporters of the Wall Street Journal summarized developments
and offered opinions on the campaign for the presidency.

The articles concentrated attention on the Democratic side with little
mention of the Republican incumbent until the later articles appeared.
At that time the six Democrats in the race were: Senators Kerry of
Nebraska, Tsongas of Massachusetts and Harkin of Iowa, and Governors
Clinton of Arkansas and Wilder of Virginia, and former Governor Brown
of California.  Looming over the group was the specter of Governor
Cuomo of New York.  Several writers felt that his presence and
intellect would have made him the immediate front-runner if he had
decided to run.

The declared candidates were regarded by many as the weakest group to
represent the party in many years.  None of them had been tested
nationally, and other potential candidates who did enjoy a more
readily apparent national reputation had not stepped forward.  Experts
attributed the reluctance of other would-be candidates to enter the
fray to the strong approval rating of President Bush following the
Gulf War. This factor may have entered into Senator Gore's decision
not to be a candidate in 1992.  Fund raising was also a problem, and
in this area the 1992 hopefuls were far behind candidates of earlier
years.  Even though they insisted that they were "outsiders", they
knew that they would have to rely on Washington "insiders" to raise
funds, most of it to come from liberal organizations.

Mid-December saw the first actual test of the strength of the
candidates.  Governor Clinton won a non-binding "straw vote" in
Florida.  This was expected, and thought to be of little consequence.
Following close after the Florida vote all six candidates participated
in a televised debate which gave them the opportunity to attack
President Bush, and to call for new initiatives to help the middle
class.  By January the Democrats realized that the public was growing
more impatient with the President's passive reaction to the worsening
economy.  They tried to turn all matters, whether domestic or foreign,
into economic questions.

A panel of political experts met in late January.  They felt that
President Bush was doing badly and that he faced a challenge in the
New Hampshire primary.  They predicted that unless the economy got
worse he would hang on and win a close victory in November over
Governor Clinton who they expected would emerge from a very weak
Democratic field.
</SUM>














































