<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880520-0264"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">    

Yugoslav federal military commanders who met in March to consider ways
to quell dissent in Slovenia concluded that "dissident tendencies" in
Slovenia were part of a foreign-backed conspiracy to overthrow the
country's Communist government, but they did not discuss a plan of
action against the "conspiracy." Slovenian police later denied that
there was such a conspiracy. Slovenia is considered the most liberal
of Yugoslavia's six republics. Slovenian Communists have frequently
criticized the way the federal government is dealing with the
country's economic and social problems. Some army commanders have
complained that Slovenia's leadership has failed to act firmly against
political dissidents.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891201-0100"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">       

Serbia on Tuesday banned all political and economic contacts with
Slovenia. The government of Slovenia said Friday that Serbia is
attempting to "oust us from Yugoslavia," and called Serbia's action "a
flagrant violation of all constitutional, legal and civilized norms."
Liberal, prosperous Slovenia and the hard-line communist leadership of
Serbia have been feuding for years, but the Serbian action on Tuesday
was the gravest threat to the unity of the Yugoslav federation since
Tito's death in 1980. Slovenia advocates regional autonomy and has
scheduled the regions first multi-party elections next spring while
Serbia insists on a centralized federation with a single Communist
Party.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900625-0160"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">      

The republic of Slovenia plans to draft a constitution giving it full
sovereignty within a new Yugoslav federation. Slovenia is the most
politically liberal and prosperous of the country's six republics. The
proposal will be discussed by Slovenia's parliament in mid-July and
approval is almost certain.  According to a recent poll 70% of
Slovenes surveyed believe they would be better off outside the
Yugoslav federation while only 15% desired to remain a republic within
Yugoslavia in its present form. Both Slovenia and Croatia, the two
republics that held free elections this year, have proposed a loose
confederation to replace the present federation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900703-0040"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">   

On Monday Slovenia's parliament declared the republic's full
sovereignty, but stopped short of calling for secession. A coalition
of center-right parties formed a new government in Slovenia last month
after overwhelming reform Communists in the first free elections held
in Communist-ruled Yugoslavia in 45 years. The new government demands
that Yugoslavia transform itself into a loose confederation of
sovereign states and threatens to declare full independence if the
remaining republics do not agree. The hard-line Communist government
in the largest republic of Serbia vehemently opposes turning
Yugoslavia into a confederation and has made no plans for free
elections.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910628-0109"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Less than two days after Slovenia and Croatia unilaterally seceded
from the Yugoslav federation, the federal government mobilized troops
to reassert control. The declarations of independence came after
months of unsuccessful negotiations among leaders of the six republics
with Serbia insisting on strong central control while Slovenia and
Croatia demanded a looser confederation.  Serbia fears the fate of
Serbs in an independent Croatia and the loss of economic support from
Slovenia and Croatia, the federation's wealthiest republics. With only
7 million of Yugoslavia's 23 million population the two republics
supply about two-thirds of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange and half of
the country's gross national product.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06182091"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Just a day after both sides had agreed to a cease-fire, the Yugoslav
army issued a "final ultimatum" to Slovenia threatening "decisive
military action." The army appeared to be beefing up its forces in
Slovenia, sending additional tanks across Croatia and dispatching two
warships to Koper, Slovenia. The President of Slovenia announced "I
cannot foresee Slovenia becoming a part of Yugoslavia in a democratic
way. The only possibility in this connection is her forced
annexation." The Croatian government announced that it was halting all
contributions to the central government and in Zagreb, the capital,
federal garrisons stood on full alert.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0123"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

While federal army tanks and jets pounded Slovenia last week, the
Ljubljana Stock Exchange enjoyed one of its best days ever. But
yesterday, with a tenuous peace settling over Slovenia, the exchange
panicked. The exchange's chief executive opined, "Slovenes are now
beginning to see the costs of independence more clearly than when we
were at war." The fact is that no one knows where Slovenia is
headed. The shunning of Slovenian independence by Western Europe and
the U.S. is particularly disillusioning to the Slovenes who have
always considered themselves as Westerners. Finding new markets in the
West is critical to Slovenia's future.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-305"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Slovenia's economic prospects would improve if it could gain access to
$1.6 billion in foreign exchange deposits from Slovene banks which
have been frozen in the former National Bank of Yugoslavia since
independence.  Resolution of this problem depends on relations with
Yugoslavia which are not good. Slovenia is also anxious to settle its
share (estimated at $1.8 billion) of the unallocated Yugoslav federal
debt totaling $14.6 billion. Slovene economists are hopeful that the
European Community-sponsored peace conference on Yugoslavia might
resolve issues related to the debt and that the US might recognize
Slovenia thus speeding admission to the IMF and other financial
institutions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-6646"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Slovenian enterprises are looking for trading partners in the European
Community to compensate for lost markets in the former
Yugoslavia. Until 1990 over 30% of Slovenia's exports were with the
former Yugoslavia. After an embargo by Serbia on Slovene imports in
1990 and ensuing warfare in neighboring Croatia, Slovene Exports to
the former Yugoslavia have fallen by 85%, and as a result industrial
production dropped last year by 15% and will fall another 12% this
year.  Unemployment has risen from 9% to 11% of the labor
force. Germany, Italy, France and Austria are now Slovenia's main
trading partners.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-341"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Independence gave Slovenia the opportunity to build an open market
economy and democratic institutions, but it has had its
costs. Slovenian enterprises relied on exports to the rest of Europe
based on sales in Yugoslavia. The UN embargo on trade with Serbia
meant the loss of Slovenia's largest market and an end to cheap
Serbian raw materials. Now Slovenia must lower real wages and increase
productivity to compensate. Continuing warfare in the rest of the
former Yugoslavia has wiped out a profitable transient tourist
industry. But the new coalition government is determined to complete
the transformation of Slovenia into a full-fledged market-oriented,
multi-party parliamentary democracy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-30788"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

There is, perhaps, hope for normalization of relations between
Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), but don't hold
your breath.  Although Slovenia has refused to accept Yugoslavia's
offer of recognition or to recognize in return, a sign of some
softening in Slovenia's attitude came in words spoken in November 1993
by the Slovenian President and the minister of foreign affairs
suggesting a degree of openness to reconciliation. On the other side
the FRY minister of foreign affairs, with many reservations, has said
"Yugoslavia is interested in good relations with all of its neighbors
... Slovenia is no exception."</SUM>
