<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890302-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The number of tuberculosis (TB) cases among HIV positive patients,
especially drug addicts, has been growing in recent years.  People
with the tuberculosis bacteria ordinarily have only about a 10 per
cent risk of getting active TB; however, HIV, the AIDS virus, weakens
the body's defenses against other diseases and lowers resistance to
the tuberculosis bacteria.  A recent study conducted on 520 drug users
in a methadone program found, during an almost 2-year follow-up, that
eight AIDS-infected people developed active tuberculosis while no
tuberculosis occurred in those who were non- HIV.  Administering the
drug isoniazid prevented tuberculosis development and is now
administered along with the methadone.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890511-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The Center of Disease Control (CDC) highlighted the tuberculosis (TB)
rate in U.S.  prisons.  A survey in 29 states reveals 31 TB cases per
100,000 prisoners in 1984-1985, with eight cases per 100,000
non-prisoners. The highest rate was 110 per 100,000 inmates in New
Jersey.  TB is a contagious, bacterial lung disease.  As many as 7
percent of Americans have latent TB infections, with about 10 percent
someday developing active TB. Overcrowded prisons are especially
conducive to the spread of the disease, although HIV infections may
play a part. The CDC recommended TB testing, chest X- rays, and
isolation of TB victims.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900215-0031"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

According to a study released today which looks at 25,398 nursing home
residents in Arkansas, blacks are twice as likely to get infected with
the tuberculosis (TB) bacteria as whites living under the same
conditions.  Prison data from Arkansas and Minnesota contain the same
conclusion. Overall, blacks suffer six times more TB than whites. Ten
million Americans are infected with the TB bacteria, with about 22,000
active cases and 1,700 deaths reported annually. Additional studies
suggest that whites have evolved better defenses against TB, long
active in Europe, and there is a racial difference in the resistance
of germ-eating blood cells.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900217-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The AIDS epidemic is bringing a resurgence of tuberculosis (TB).
There are now a number of treatments available for AIDS and
AIDS-related infections and work is encouraging in research for a
vaccine.  An epidemic of TB is appearing in AIDS patients who had been
exposed to TB early in life, but before AIDS were able to fight off
the bacteria. Homeless people are also at an elevated risk for TB. TB
again is becoming an inner city problem, as in New York City where TB
declined between 1960 and 1977, but is now increasing--reaching the
1960 level again.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900316-0028"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The steady decline in tuberculosis (TB) has almost stopped.  According
to the Centers for Disease Control the 1988 rate was down 0.4 percent
from 1987.  This drop compares with an average annual decrease of 6.7
percent in the early 1980's.  This slowing is attributed to the
increase of TB in patients with HIV-related illnesses.  In the U.S. in
1988, TB rates were 4.1 per 100,000 whites; 28.3 per 100,000 blacks;
18.3 for Hispanics and 36.3 for Asians and Pacific Islanders.  More
than 115,000 Americans were under treatment in 1987.  An estimated
10,000,000 Americans are infected with the TB bacteria, but the vast
majority will never become ill.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900521-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The AIDS epidemic and a concurrent increase in tuberculosis (TB) were
discussed at a recent World Conference on Lung Health in Boston.  TB
cases have risen 5 percent since 1989 in the U.S. and 35 percent in
Newark, N.J.  The conference recommended TB screening at places where
AIDS tests are administered.  TB is highly contagious and spread by
airborne particles. Millions of Americans carry the germ, but the
disease does not develop unless the immune system is weakened.
Although preventable and curable, if untreated 50 percent of victims
die within two years.  Three million people die from TB worldwide each
year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101690-0040"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The World Health Organization (WHO) claims tuberculosis (TB) is the
world's deadliest infectious disease, annually killing nearly 3
million people worldwide, most between the ages of 15 and 59.  WHO
attributed the rise to the AIDS epidemic, with 3 million people dually
infected.  WHO expects between 15 and 20 million infected with AIDS by
2000, resulting in a sharp rise in TB, a highly communicable disease.
In the U.S., the number of active TB cases is up nearly 5% over the
last year. The 6-month treatment to combat the disease costs $30 to
$50 per person and is not readily available in developing
countries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0002"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The incidence of active tuberculosis cases in New York City rose 38%
in 1990. The city Health Department claims an aggressive attack on
this epidemic.  The Department is testing and treating the homeless,
has established a residence for homeless victims, requires testing of
all children entering school, and is training staffs at homeless and
substance abuse treatment centers in TB prevention and control.  The
TB bacteria is estimated to infect 1,000,000 New Yorkers, but 99% do
not have an active case.  Those with a high risk are people with
defenses weakened by HIV infection, other serious illnesses, or poor
nutrition.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06276078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

Poor ventilation systems in modern office buildings are recycling old,
stale air and spreading airborne infections.  Various studies have
found instances where tuberculosis, measles, and flu were spread
throughout sealed, modern office buildings that added little or no
fresh air.  Other places where infections spread rapidly include
airplanes, pediatricians' offices, prisons, hospitals, and homeless
shelters.  Adding 15, or even less than 10, cubic feet per minute of
outdoor air has become common.  Adding even 35 cubic feet per minute
as recommended in Massachusetts would significantly decrease
infection's spread, but can be expensive.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-67721"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

Over the past year there has been an increase in tuberculosis
morbidity and mortality in Latvia.  Morbidity increased by 14.8
percent and mortality by 44%.  The total number of infectious cases
was 868, up from 771 in 1993.  The State Tuberculosis and Lung Disease
Center attributed the increases to poor socioeconomic conditions and
the slow legislative process. Proposals to pass laws requiring
mandatory treatment of infectious cases of TB have not been acted
upon.  Latvia has 11 state tuberculosis hospitals providing free
treatment, including the newest, Ceplisi, which began operations in
January and primarily is treating chronic alcoholics infected with the
disease.</SUM>
