<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881017-0235"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Construction of a 31-mile tunnel, 24 miles of it underwater, is
underway between Dover, England to the coast of France.  Scheduled to
be completed in 1993, it will cut the London-Paris journey from six
hours to three.  It will enable freight to travel on a single train
instead of being transferred to trucks for a ferry trip.  Some wonder
whether Britain will be ready for it.  A writer on the project said,
"They're still arguing about whether it will introduce rabies into
this country, or let in terrorists."  Critics say obsolete commuter
lines in SE England will cause delays.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900615-0131"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Britain risks failing to take full advantage of the cross-channel
"Chunnel" due to the Thatcher government's announcement yesterday that
it would not help fund a high-speed rail line between London and the
tunnel.  This fuels fears that the country's creaky transportation
system will isolate Britain.  The lack of the high-speed rail link,
and improved service beyond, means Britain may miss out on the
tunnel's total benefits.  The consortium formed to build the link
asked the government for a financial contribution, which the
government says involves "unacceptable" risks to the taxpayer.
Industrialists fear poor links will isolate them from the European
Community's single market.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900629-0260"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

The "Chunnel" between Britain and France is half dug, scheduled to
open in three years on time, but is almost 60% over budget, embroiled
in contractor dispute over responsibility for $1.7 billion in
overruns, and scrambling for more investment money after the British
government refused to finance a rail link.  The British public shows
little enthusiasm for the Chunnel, fearing it will import rabies,
terrorists and invading armies.  The French are forging ahead with a
high-speed rail link, enthusiastic because the tunnel surfaces in one
of their more depressed areas.  Rural southeast English are reluctant
to have high-speed trains screaming through their back yards.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900705-0145"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Nationwide opinion polls about the Channel tunnel show convincingly
that: the English do not want a fixed link; they like ferries and
their island story; they are afraid of long, dark tunnels underwater,
and of rabies, rats and terrorists crawling through; not to mention
European undesirables.  However, the tunnel will be a symbol of
European unity.  Moreover, it will reinforce historically dominant
trading links (London - Frankfurt - Milan), bolstering Northern Europe
as an economic entity challenged by a strengthened Mediterranean
"sunbelt".  For the rest of us, it means that you can climb aboard and
whiz from London to Paris in three hours.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901030-0216"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Britain and France were linked beneath the English Channel on Tuesday
when workers used a two-inch probe to connect the two halves of the
undersea rail "Chunnel".  The basic goal of the tunnel is to enable
passengers to travel between London and Paris in about three hours,
half the time of a car/ferry journey.

A study released last Friday in Paris said the tunnel's completion
will aggravate traffic congestion in a wide area of Continental
Europe.  Some Britons fear an influx of ills from the Continent,
ranging from terrorism to rabid animals.

Profits are not expected until the end of the century.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901031-0024"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Workman tunneling under the English Channel Tuesday created the first
land link between Britain and France when British workers sent a
two-inch wide probe through to their French colleagues.  The tunnel
symbolizes the growing unification of Europe.  Despite her
countrymen's fears of losing their ancient moat against Europe,
British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said, "This is what Europe is
about."

The link-up was on time despite a pay strike by militant French
workers and two serious injuries.  France hopes the project will
revitalize depressed northern regions.  Many Britons fear an influx of
Continental ills ranging from terrorists to rabid animals.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120290-0163"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

On Saturday, British and French workers digging the Channel tunnel
finally met after knocking out a passage large enough to walk through.
French President Mitterand said, "What a brilliant sign of the
vitality of our two countries." The $16.7-billion Channel tunnel will
make it possible to travel from Paris to London by high-speed train in
3-1/2 hours, including 35 minutes through the tunnel.  It takes 90
minutes by ferry.

The tunnel is viewed positively in France where it is expected to
revive economically depressed northern areas.  Many Britons fear drug
traffickers will invade their island via the tunnel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-4219"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

The official opening of the Channel tunnel on May 6 should be the
starting point for recovery in the property market in Kent and
Northeastern France.  Far-sighted prospective buyers looking near
Calais include hauliers wanting to set up a base on the Continent and
Asian entrepreneurs who see an advantage in being close to Belgium.

Growing confidence in the UK market is slowly stimulating interest in
French property, although smaller banks in Calais are none too happy
when Britons seek loans.  Show cash and there are bargains to be had.
Wine Society members can buy wine free from UK taxes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT942-11114"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

The official opening of the Channel tunnel this year promises to help
revitalize the northwest regions of Belgium although the country's
biggest ports will suffer a loss in traffic.  Flanders, the area most
likely to benefit, has suffered rapid increases in unemployment.  Two
main areas for development are: firstly, increasing traffic as holiday
makers and freight carriers head towards the tunnel opening in Calais
and, secondly, tourism.  West Flanders is home to some of the
best-known World War 1 battlefields and large, open green spaces.  The
biggest advantage is the close cooperation between national and
federal authorities with French and UK counterparts.</SUM>
