<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880908-0264"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
After studying business at the University of California, Berkeley, and
the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, Michael Milken joined
Drexel Firestone & Co. in Philadelphia as a junior bond
trader. Mergers made the firm into today's Drexel Burnham Lambert. In
1977 Milken convinced Drexel to let him move the company's junk bond
operations from Wall Street to Beverly Hills, California. Working
12-13 hours a day seven days a week he has transformed Drexel Burnham
Lambert from a minor player on Wall Street into a powerhouse, and as
head of the firm's junk-bond operations has acquired a fortune
exceeding $500 million. Now Milken faces charges of insider trading.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012689-0139"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Michael Robert Milken's shrewd trading of junk bonds made millions for
Drexel Burnham Lambert and for himself. In 1978 he convinced Drexel to
let him move its junk bond operations from New York to Los Angeles. An
intense workaholic, Milken Typically worked 15-hour days. By the time
he turned 42 Milken had become one of the nation's richest men with a
net worth of close to $1 billion. Now Drexel faces federal charges of
an array of securities violations and the firm has announced that
Milken will be fired. Drexel is expected to plead guilty and in all
likelihood, separate charges will be filed against Milken.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA033089-0030"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Michael Milken, the Drexel Burnham Lambert "junk bond" wizard who
revolutionized U.S. corporate finance has been indicted on federal
charges. The indictment charges that Milken used the firm of former
stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky to hide illegal stock trading. Boesky
pleaded guilty to a single criminal charge and gave prosecutors the
information that touched off the Drexel-Milken investigation. The
indictment further charges Milken with helping carry out tax fraud
through sham securities trades with Drexel and with straight insider
trading. The indictment asks that Milken, his brother Lowell and
partner Bruce Newberg forfeit a total of $1.85 billion earned in a
continuing criminal enterprise operated at Drexel.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890616-0192"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
Michael Milken, 42, has resigned after 19 years with Drexel Burnham
Lambert.  Milken who reportedly made $550 million in 1987 faces $1.85
billion in forfeitures if convicted on a 98-count fraud and
racketeering indictment.  Milken's trial is set for next March (1990)
in federal court in Manhattan.  Milken is forming a consulting firm,
International Capital Assets Group, to assist companies that want to
raise money. Milken's resignation ends the relationship between one of
the most important financial players of the decade and the firm he
helped boost from a second-tier brokerage to the nation's fifth
largest.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA061689-0125"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

"Junk bond" wizard Michael Milken has officially ended his 20-year
career at Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc. and has announced plans to form
a new firm which will offer a wide variety of consulting services.
Milken started out in 1969 as a part-time employee at a Philadelphia
precursor to Drexel Burnham Lambert.  Within a decade his pioneering
use of high-yield high-risk junk bonds transformed Drexel from a
second-tier brokerage firm into one of Wall Street's most powerful
investment firms. Drexel's settlement with the SEC bans the company
from doing business with Milken who now faces a 98-count federal
criminal indictment.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101589-0163"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
Michael Milken's new company, International Capital Access Group, is
up and running and its founder says it will help members of minority
groups and unions raise the capital to own companies. ICAG has already
purchased $2.5 million of equipment for lease to a company that was
bought out by unionized employees in 1987. Milken says that he has
been approached by several hundred companies and ICAG is doing work
for about 30 of these. However, all is not that rosy. Because he is
under indictment Milken can not trade or underwrite securities and
many potential clients are frightened of having their names publicly
associated with him.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900426-0110"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Michael Milken's guilty plea to six felony counts makes it impossible
for him to claim in civil cases that he was not guilty of market
fraud. So many shareholders and investors have filed suits against him
that some attorneys are suggesting that Milken should file for
bankruptcy. Milken's attorneys, however, say that the $400 million
that he is required to provide for civil restitution will more than
cover any legitimate claims. The attorneys negotiated a plea agreement
designed so that little of what Milken admitted to can be used against
him in civil suits. Whatever the case, settling so many high-stakes
cases could be a long and tricky process.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA112290-0144"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

A federal judge has sentenced Michael Milken to 10 years in prison and
three years on probation during which he must perform full-time
community service. When the judge read the sentence Milken stood rigid
and motionless with a look of disbelief. The sentence was by far the
harshest imposed in the recent chain of Wall Street scandals. Milken
pleaded guilty to conspiracy, securities fraud, filing false
information with the SEC, mail fraud and aiding in the filing of a
false tax return. The judge said she was convinced by evidence
presented in pre-sentencing that Milken had committed other serious
crimes including obstruction of justice.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA112290-0168"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Michael Milken is a very smart, very driven and very flawed human
being. He started dealing in junk bonds and took a good idea too
far. His competitive juices and obsession with control led him to do
sleazy things. When the market was small no one cared what he was
doing, but when it was big, that changed. The SEC went after Milken
only when a trail of stool pigeons fingered Ivan F.  Boesky, who
fingered Milken. Milken was brilliant, but he had no sense of how
others perceived him. He didn't blame himself for his problems, but
blamed the media. Now he has lost everything.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901213-0236"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Columbia Savings & Loan Association has filed a $6 billion civil
lawsuit against Michael Milken and other former Drexel Burnham Lambert
officials. Milken, formerly head of Drexel's junk bond operations, was
sentenced last month to 10 years in prison for six felonies relating
to illegal trading practices, none involving junk bonds. The suit
alleges that the thrift lost more than $2 billion on investments in
junk bonds and seeks three times that amount under federal
racketeering and antitrust laws. It accuses Milken and others of
manipulating the junk bond market, giving bribes, misappropriating
valuable stock interests, and skimming profits.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911004-0115"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
  
Michael Milken's crimes were massive: systematically robbing clients
by trading on their confidential information, manipulating securities
prices to force deals on which he could make huge fees, gouging
unsuspecting clients on junk-bond issues, and taking for himself
securities meant for his customers. By 1982 Milken was making $45
million a year.  He soon enlisted Ivan F. Boesky in his
schemes. Boesky was already trading illegally on secret
information. The partnership flourished until Sept. 17, 1986 when
Boesky became an undercover agent for the Department of Justice.  This
was the beginning of the fall which culminated on Nov. 21, 1990 when
Milken was sentenced to 10 years in prison.  </SUM>

