<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06170171 SJMN91-06163095 SJMN91-06163112 SJMN91-06162192
SJMN91-06164210 SJMN91-06164066 SJMN91-06164150 SJMN91-06167046
SJMN91-06165101 SJMN91-06170249"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

The best estimate was that Mount Pinatubo would explode and send its
deadly hot ash and lava down its slopes for the first time in 600
years.  Clark U.S. Air Force Base, the largest outside the U.S., and
the city of Angeles, were in its path.

David Harlow is one of the few volcano seismologists in the world and
he and a team of U.S. Geological Survey and Philippine seismologists
have been climbing over the mountain for several weeks with their
instruments listening to the signals from its interior.  Pinatubo
erupted with a violent explosion and in accordance with the
scientists' predictions.

The mountain blew ash 80,000 feet into the air and sent rivers of
molten lava and rock down its slope.  Most of the debris flowed into
three of Luzon's rivers. Many of the mountain's inhabitants were
stunned by the explosion.  The early warning prediction enabled 84,000
people to evacuate the mountain area, including Clark Air Base.

Volcanic eruptions are caused by one of the earth's plates sliding
under another or moving apart.  Pressure from the earth's interior
then melts the rock forcing it to the surface.
	
Pinatubo's last eruption 600 years ago produced as much molten rock as
Mount St. Helens in 1980.

Communications with Pinatubo's scientists have been unsuccessful.  It
is known that the team was planning a helicopter flight over the
mountain before the eruption in order to check the size of the lava
dome.  On the mountain, the team was located in a protected bunker and
they provided early warning from that location.

The Mount Pinatubo eruption occurred at the same time as Typhoon
YUNYA. The two forces of nature threatened to engulf everything in
their path.

The eruptions are also occurring simultaneously with the U.S. -
Philippine discussions on a military bases treaty. Clark Air Force
Base may well be declared inoperable.

There were many personal stories of panic and wrenching sadness as
thousands of residents fled their homes because they were in the path
of the debris from the mountain.  Collapsed homes and buildings from
the weight of ash also added to the panic.

There were mudslides, torrential rains, floods, and always the heavy
mass of volcanic ash. Communications were down and emergency water and
food supplies were low.  The death toll was approaching 200.

Many areas are without power and there is looting due to the lack of
food.  </SUM>
