<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06163095"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">
    
The estimate is being made that Mount Pinatubo, which began to erupt
on Saturday, will explode and send its deadly hot ash toward Clark Air
Force Base on Luzon.  Also at risk are 350 thousand residents of
Angeles City.  Even the threat of eruption is likely to keep the base
closed indefinitely.

Volcanic eruptions are caused when one of the earth's plates collides
or moves apart and pressure from the earth's interior melts the rock
and forces it to the surface.  Pinatubo's last eruption 600 years ago
produced as much molten rock as Mount St. Helens in 1980.

The ash produced by a catastrophic eruption would be especially
dangerous to in-flight aircraft, whose engines would stall.

Sensitive instruments placed by U.S. and Philippine scientists
continue to monitor the mountain.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06165101"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">

David Harlow is one of the few volcano seismologists in the world.

He and a team of scientists from the U.S. Geological Survey and from
the Philippines listen to the signs from Mount Pinatubo; it had been
inactive for 600 years.  Pinatubo erupted according to the predictions
by Harlow and the team, blowing ash 75,000 feet into the air and
sending rivers of molten ash down its slope.  The accurate prediction
enabled the evacuation of 84,000 people from the area.  Evacuees
included personnel and dependents from the U.S. Clark Air Force Base.
The base may have to be abandoned.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06170171"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
 
When Mount Pinatubo first began to smoulder two months ago,
seismologists began to climb over the mountain and place their
recording devices at strategic points.  Pinatubo had a habit of
exploding with a force twice as great as Mount St. Helens.

After a few weeks of investigation, the scientists decided to
recommend evacuation of 84,000 people.  The warning was timely.  The
mountain erupted blowing hot ash and pumice 80,000 feet into the air.
This marked a turning point in successful volcanic forecasting.

U.S. officials, however, believe that the damage at Clark Air Base may
force the permanent closure of the base.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06164150"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
 
Survivors of the Mount Pinatubo eruption relocated to a refugee camp
near Olongapo, told a tale of panic and flight.  The eruption began
with a great gray-greenish mushroom cloud that turned day into night.
A rain of ash followed.  Refugees even used cardboard boxes in an
attempt to protect themselves from ash.

Clouds of volcanic ash drifted towards the South China Sea.

Seismologists warned that the crisis may not be over.  They believe
that the volcano has plenty of built-up magma and that more severe
eruptions could follow.  One news reporter likened the huge eruption
as being similar to a nuclear explosion.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06162192"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
 
Fifteen thousand military personnel at Clark Air Base, Philippine
Islands, began to evacuate today due to the eruption of Mount
Pinatubo.  This order came in the wake of a Philippine government
order for an evacuation of 11,000 people from 20 villages near the
volcano. Following two moderate eruptions, a larger explosion is
expected to follow. One Philippine official said that the volcano is
spewing gas up to 1800 degrees, thick ash, boulders and rocks.

Mt. Pinatubo is located in the "Ring of Fire" that encircles the
Pacific Ocean.  It is its first eruption in 600 years.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06164066"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 
  
Mount Pinatubo erupted violently today and sent a cloud of steam and
ash 10 miles into the sky. Warning sirens and church bells sounded at
Clark Air Base and surrounding communities. Terrified residents
clogged roads in the area of Pinatubo.

U.S. and Philippine volcanologists believed that more eruptions would
follow and that everyone within 12 miles of Pinatubo should evacuate
immediately.

Communications with scientists taking measurements on the mountain
were unsuccessful.  It is known that this team had planned to make a
helicopter flight over the mountain to check the size of the lava dome
inside the volcano.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06163112"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Clark Air Base, now closed, and the villages surrounding Mount
Pinatubo in the Philippines continue under the threat of a major
volcanic eruption.

Philippine counterparts are the only personnel near the mountain.
They are in a protected bunker and continue to monitor the volcano in
an attempt to provide early warning to anyone in the erupting
volcano's path.

If a massive eruption occurs, Pinatubo will explode with an avalanche
of ash 1000 degrees or higher and traveling at 100 miles per hour.  It
would engulf everything in its path.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06167046" 
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Mount Pinatubo continues to be wracked by increasingly violent
eruptions as Typhoon YUNYA slammed into the eastern coast of Luzon,
Philippine Islands. The two forces of nature threaten to engulf cities
and towns in their path.

Temperatures of rivers were rising due to hot ash. Debris was clogging
everything including generators, thus disrupting power supplies.

Pinatubo began erupting violently on Friday and these explosions are
seen as a single eruption.  The eruption is occurring at the same time
as U.S.- Philippine discussions on a military bases treaty.  Pinatubo
could remain active for years, possibly rendering Clark
inoperable. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06164210"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Mount Pinatubo erupted today with six huge explosions and a mushroom
cloud that blocked out the sun.  Amidst panic by local residents and
clogged exit roads, huge stones, searing gas and molten rock raced
down the 4795-foot mountain. Most of the debris flowed into three
rivers.

About 3,000 Aeta tribesmen who are descendants of the original
inhabitants of the Philippines were stunned by the explosion and fled
down the slopes ahead of the debris.

There are about 21 active and 200 dormant volcanos in the Philippines.
The last eruption was Taal Volcano in 1965 which claimed 200
lives. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06170249"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
 
There were many personal stories of panic and wrenching sadness as
thousands of residents of the Mount Pinatubo area fled their homes
after the eruption.  All of nature seemed to be conspiring against the
Philippines.  There were mudslides, torrential rain, floods, and
always the heavy mass of volcanic ash. Communications were down,
emergency food and water supplies were low and the death toll from the
forces of nature now numbers 200.  The heavy thick ash has collapsed
homes and buildings.

Evacuation centers are jammed with people. Angeles is without power
and there is looting because of the lack of food.  </SUM>
