<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP900625-0289 AP900219-0037 LA011190-0078 AP900529-0169
AP890116-0148 AP901210-0077 AP890831-0158 AP881206-0232 AP880513-0068"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Officials disagree whether a natural-gas-line leak caused an explosion
that killed two at an ammonium perchlorate plant, or if the line
ruptured after the blast.  Natural gas traveling from a deteriorating
pipeline through sewer lines into a house was ignited by a pilot light
and exploded.  Explosions two days apart leveled two houses six blocks
apart and fed by separate natural gas lines.  Natural or propane gas
caused an apartment building explosion that killed one.  Equipment
malfunction caused two natural-gas-fired oil heaters being brought on
line at a solar power plant to explode, producing smoke that may have
been carcinogenic.  A motel explosion that killed four guests occurred
while the night clerk attempted to turn off gas in the laundry area
after a leak was reported.  At a natural-gas well explosion that
killed one, authorities kept the fire burning until the well could be
capped so winds wouldn't scatter poisonous hydrogen sulfide in the
escaping gas.  Workers making repairs cut into a natural-gas pipeline
at a Gulf of Mexico gas-drilling platform, causing an explosion that
killed seven.  A natural-gas explosion that killed one, destroyed an
apartment building near another building where authorities
investigating a possible leak had turned off the gas.  </SUM>
