<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP900625-0289 AP900219-0037 LA011190-0078 AP900529-0169
AP890116-0148 AP901210-0077 AP890831-0158 AP881206-0232 AP880513-0068"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

A Kerr-McGee plant in Nevada that makes ammonium perchlorate, a solid
fuel component, was leveled by a blast that killed two people and
injured 326. Plant officials and the gas company disagree over whether
a leak in a natural gas line caused the explosion or the line ruptured
after the blast.

Two people were injured when gas from a deteriorating pipeline
traveled through sewer lines into their home's utility room and was
ignited by the hot-water heater pilot light.  The explosion occurred
as police were awakening and evacuating area residents.

Natural gas explosions leveled two houses two days apart, within six
blocks of each other. The sites were fed by two separate gas lines and
the explosions were called coincidences. No serious injuries resulted.

A 12-unit apartment building explosion, caused by either natural or
propane gas, killed a man and injured three people. Gas was smelled
immediately after the blast.

An explosion occurred at the world's largest solar power plant as two
natural-gas-fired oil heaters were being brought on line. Equipment
malfunction caused one to explode, setting off fire and explosion in
the other.  Two plant workers suffered minor breathing problems. Fire
and plant officials disagreed on whether smoke from the burning oil
was carcinogenic.

After a motel guest reported leaking gas in the laundry area, at the
gas company's instruction the night clerk was attempting to turn the
gas off when an explosion occurred.  Four guests were killed and ten
treated for smoke inhalation and minor injuries.

A natural gas well explosion killed one worker and critically burned
four others.  Authorities feared winds would scatter poisonous
hydrogen sulfide gas and planned to keep the escaping gas burning to
burn off the poison until the well could be capped.

An explosion occurred at a natural gas drilling platform in the Gulf
of Mexico when gas company workers tried to make repairs and cut into
the pipeline transporting gas to shore.  Seven people were killed and
23 injured. The gas company agreed to pay over $300 million in
damages.

A natural-gas explosion destroyed an apartment building on an Army
base, killing one and injuring 17. Authorities were alerted to the
smell of gas three hours before the blast and turned off the gas in
the building where the leak was thought to be. While that building was
being evacuated, a nearby building where gas had not been turned off
exploded.  </SUM>
