<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880623-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Lawmakers are having difficulty coming to an agreement on whether or
not illegal aliens should be counted in the 1990 census.

The U.S. Constitution requires the Census Bureau to count all the
"persons" in the country every ten years for purposes of
reapportionment of seats in the house of representatives.  It does not
specify citizens.  Some representatives feel that illegal aliens, if
counted, may give some states like California and Texas and extra
seat.  Since there is a 435-seat limit, some representatives fear that
their states may loose a seat.
 
In the past, every state has counted legal and illegal aliens in the
census.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890802-0064"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

The Census head count will begin on April 1, 1990.  These figures are
used to redistribute the 435 House seats and to distribute federal aid
to local governments.

Aliens have been counted in the past but military personal stationed
overseas have not.  The Census Department and the Department of
Defense are devising a plan to count the military and determine which
states may count them.

Census officials contend that they have no way to determine who is in
the country legally.  It would be difficult to get aliens to tell the
truth or participate in the census at all if they were asked about
their status.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880217-0175"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Some 40 members of Congress have joined with the Federation for
American Immigration Reform in announcing that a suit will be filed in
an effort to stop the Census Bureau from counting the estimated 2
million illegal aliens living in the United States.

Rep. Tom Ridge, R-Pa., said everyone should be counted but the Census
Bureau should develop a method to determine how many people are
illegal and deduct that number from the figures used for
reapportioning Congress.
	
Rep. Jan Meyers, R-Kan., suggested that a question should be put on
the Census form asking whether respondents are U.S. citizens.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ890828-0011"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
   
The Senate voted to force the Census Bureau to exclude illegal
immigrants in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment.

The Census Bureau is planning to count all residents in the nation and
estimates that it counted about 2 million illegal immigrants in the
1980 Census.  That gave California and New York one extra seat each.

Hispanic organizations are worried about the congressional
campaign. They fear that it will make it more difficult for the Census
Bureau to get an accurate count in areas where some Hispanics and
blacks already appear to be reluctant to provide information.

The 106 million census forms could be reprinted but wording a question
so those illegal immigrants answer accurately would be a
challenge.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102189-0151"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
   
The Social Services director in Orange County wants all residents in
the county to be counted in the 1990 Census. He will ask the Board of
Supervisors to pass a resolution supporting his position.

If the approximate 200,000 illegal aliens were not counted, the county
would loose an estimated $56 million a year in federal revenue and
lose representatives in Congress.

On Thursday, the U.S. Senate and House agreed that illegal aliens
should be counted.  Before Thursday, the Senate had voted to bar the
Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens.  The House had twice
rejected efforts to exclude aliens.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880330-0119"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
   
Population experts say that little would change in allocating seats in
Congress if two sides get their way in trying to force changes in the
1990 census.

One group has filed suit to ignore the aliens while other groups want
the final census count to be increased to account for people who may
be overlooked or undercounted.

William O'Hare, director of policy studies for the independent
Population Reference Bureau, said "the only change would be a
flip-flop of one seat from California to Georgia."

If aliens are counted, California is estimated to gain six seats with
four additional seats going to Florida and three to Texas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071589-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
 
California officials have condemned a U.S. Senate vote to exclude
illegal aliens from the census.  They fear that California will be
shortchanged by millions of dollars in federal aid for programs for
poor people.  California is thought to have at least 50% of the
nation's 3 to 8 million illegal aliens.

The Senate bill is expected to face tough opposition in the House
where states with large alien population such as California, New York
and Illinois have many votes.  Furthermore, a federal court in
Pittsburgh ruled earlier that excluding illegal aliens from the census
would be unconstitutional.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890719-0225"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
       
The Senate debate on a new immigration bill examines the question on
who should be counted in the process that will allocate House seats in
the 1990 census. Specifically, whether illegal aliens should be
counted in the 1990 Census.

The Census Bureau maintains that an accurate count will not be
possible if the illegal immigrants are left out. There could be enough
aliens to shift seats from up to five states to Sun Belt states with
large alien populations.

The government estimated that there are more than 2.57 million illegal
aliens living throughout the nation.

The Senatorial debate may force a Supreme Court ruling on this
constitutional issue.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
   
The Senate has voted to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal
aliens despite arguments from the Bush Administration it is both
unconstitutional and unworkable.

Senators in favor of counting aliens said that a ban is impractical
because the Census Bureau forms have been printed and they do not
contain a question about legal status.

Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-NY, said that all residents have been
counted for 190 years.  If that is changed, he said it would destroy
confidence in the census results.

Mario Moreno, head of the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund said the
shocking decision of the Senate would discourage people in the
Hispanic community from participating.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0126"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">
   
Illegal aliens will not be counted in the 1990 Census if the Senate
vote stands.  States with large immigration populations may be
adversely affected.  Now a Senate-House conference committee will
decide whether to attach the illegal immigrants ban to a 17.4 billion
appropriations bill for the State, Commerce and Justice Departments.

Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher will request that President
Bush veto any bill that includes the provisions against counting the
illegal immigrants.

The states of California, Florida, New York, Illinois, Pennsylvania
and others stand to loose congressional seats based on this Census
count.</SUM>
