<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">      

Hurricane season officially begins June 1st. Its most active period
usually begins Aug.  1st.  In the last 40 years there have been an
average of six hurricanes per year.  Drought in West Africa was
responsible for a drop in Atlantic hurricanes in the 1970s and 1980s.
The drought robbed storm systems of moisture needed to start their
escalation into hurricanes.  In five of the last six hurricane seasons
there have been just two to five hurricanes each year, except for the
seven in 1985. There were five hurricanes in 1984, four in 1986, and
three in 1987.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Typically, Atlantic hurricane season is June 1-Nov 30, with six of 10
named tropical storms becoming hurricanes with drenching rain and wind
over 74 mph. 1987 had three hurricanes and four tropical
storms. Hurricane Emily, the fastest moving hurricane in this century,
hit the Dominican Republic on September 22nd with wind gusts up to 110
mph, killing three. It recovered enough to belt Bermuda with 116 mph
winds three days later.  Hurricane Arlene meandered through the
Atlantic in mid-August with top winds of 75 mph. Hurricane Floyd hit
Key West with 75 mph winds but fizzled out over the Everglades and
Miami in mid-October.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0204"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Hurricane Gilbert, sprawled across the western Caribbean, gained
hurricane-force winds over the weekend and became a Category 5 storm
Tuesday afternoon with winds of 160 mph and central pressure of 26.66
inches. It should reach the Gulf of Mexico by Thursday. It is one of
the Great Hurricanes as far as intensity, size and destructive
potential. Category 5 storms making landfall this century have been
the 1935 hurricane that struck the Florida Keys and killed 600; and
1969's Hurricane Camille, which devastated the Mississippi coast,
killing 256. The last major hurricane to make landfall was Elena in
1985 along the Mississippi, Alabama and Florida Panhandle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0079"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

The barometric pressure at Hurricane Gilbert's center plummeted to
26.13 inches at 5:58pm Tuesday night, making it the most intense
hurricane ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere from that
standpoint. Gilbert gained hurricane-force winds last weekend and by
Tuesday night became a Category 5 storm with winds of 175 mph. The two
other Category 5 storms to hit land this century were the Labor Day
hurricane of 1935, which struck the Florida Keys and killed 408; and
1969's Hurricane Camille, which devastated the Mississippi coast,
killing 256. The last major hurricane to make landfall was Elena in
1985 along the Mississippi, Alabama and Florida Panhandle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0027"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Hurricane Gilbert, barreling toward Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, has 75
mph winds and a record 26.13 barometric pressure. With tropical storm
force winds extending 250 miles north and 200 miles south, it is twice
the size of last month's Debby, barely reaching 74 mph. Other Category
5 storms were the 1935 Labor Day hurricane, with winds above 150 mph
and a low pressure of 26.35; and 1969's Camille with 172 mph winds and
a 25-foot high storm surge, leaving $1.4 billion in damage. Gilbert's
surge is forecast as 8-12 feet.  A Sept. 8th, 1900 hurricane hit
Galveston and killed over 6,000, the worst US natural disaster.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881018-0136"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Hurricane Joan's winds slowly grew to 80 mph as it skimmed Colombia's
coast on an unusual southern path. Originally expected to weaken, it
reached hurricane force Monday night.  In Colombia it left 50 dead or
missing and triggered flooding. At noon today its center was 70 miles
offshore, 380 miles east of the Island of San Andres, moving at 10 mph
and kept on course by a strong high-pressure system over the northern
Caribbean.  Last month Hurricane Gilbert left more than 300 dead and
caused billions of dollars damage as it tore through Jamaica, the
Cayman Islands, and the Yucatan peninsula.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890529-0030"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

In 1960 Hurricane Donna struck the Florida Keys at Marathon, then
raked across Naples and Fort Myers before weakening inland. Last
season, Atlantic hurricanes killed 505 people. Gilbert killed more
than 300 and did heavy damage in Mexico, Jamaica, Haiti and the
Dominican Republic as it blasted across the western Caribbean and part
of the Gulf of Mexico, including the Florida Keys, the Florida Straits
and Cuba. Joan hovered off the coast of Central America for days
before howling in with top winds of 135 mph.  Joan caused mudslides,
floods and other damage in Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Colombia and
Panama.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Hurricane Chantal, first of the season and third named storm, is
expected to reach the Louisiana or Texas coast this afternoon or
evening. Yesterday its winds capsized an oil- drilling work vessel 25
miles south of Morgan City, LA, trapping up to 10 crew members
inside. The search for survivors was called off in late afternoon when
winds were over 60 mph and waves 12 feet high and building. Chantal
was then 200 miles SSE of Galveston, traveling NW at 10 mph. It was
soon classified a hurricane and later reported to have 75 mph
winds. Tides 5-7 feet above normal were expected.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890803-0008"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Dean became a hurricane Wednesday as it moved through the eastern
Caribbean at 20 mph, with 80 mph winds by nightfall. At midnight it
was moving westerly at 15 mph, its latest position 65 miles NE of
Barbuda, 240 miles east of St. Thomas. Currently small, with
hurricane-force winds confined to a 25 mile-radius, it could
strengthen dangerously in the next 24 hours. It was expected to hit
land at Barbuda Wednesday night and move toward the US Virgin Islands
and Puerto Rico over the next 24-36 hours. Chantal, named the season's
first hurricane Monday, was downgraded Tuesday night after hitting
land in Texas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0167"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Tracking models created by supercomputers at the National
Meteorological Center in Suitland, MD; satellites; and analysis by
hurricane forecasters provided a good idea of the destructive path
that Hurricane Hugo would follow. Forecasters identified Hugo's
landfall point in time for people to be evacuated from the South
Carolina coast, although pinpointing it was difficult. The real
forecasting problem, however, was predicting the storm's intensity,
because there are no reliable computer models for that. Hugo was
upgraded to Category 4 just hours before it slammed into
Charleston. Its last-minute increase in wind speed, reported by Air
Force reconnaissance, surprised hurricane specialists.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120389-0130"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

The 31 category 4 and 5 hurricanes from 1950-1967 profited from
abundant rainfall in Africa's Sahel.  Last year's Hurricane Gilbert
was the mightiest on record in the Western Hemisphere, with
atmospheric pressure dropping to 885 millibars and wind speed reaching
200 mph. September's Hugo sustained 150 mph winds and atmospheric
pressure of 918 millibars. This century, only two category 5
hurricanes have struck the US with full force: 1935's Labor Day storm
that ravaged the Florida Keys and 1969's Camille, which hit
Mississippi and Louisiana. 1980's Hurricane Allen, the mightiest
recorded Caribbean storm, lost much force before hitting the Gulf
Coast of Texas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900529-0005"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Hurricane Hugo last year was the worst hurricane to strike the
southeast US coast since Betsy hit the Florida Keys in 1965 and killed
74 before moving to Mississippi and Louisiana. Hugo killed 28 in the
Lesser Antilles, 29 in South Carolina, and caused an unprecedented $10
billion in damage. It heavily damaged several small sparsely populated
SC communities. Early warnings allowed 350,000 to be evacuated. In
South Carolina the worst of the storm struck the Francis Marion
National Forest between Charleston and Myrtle Beach.  If Hugo had
struck a major coastal population center, the destruction would have
been huge.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

1988's Hurricane Gilbert and last year's Hugo both reached Category 5,
meaning top winds greater than 155 mph. Gilbert killed over 300 and
caused heavy damage from the Lesser Antilles to Mexico. Hugo killed 28
in the Caribbean and 29 in South Carolina and caused a record $10
billion in damage. Between 1940 and 1969, 22 hurricanes with 110 mph
winds hit the US, but due to drought in Africa's Sahel, from 1970 to
1989 only eight did. Hugo revealed inadequacies in the Emergency
Broadcast System and some emergency shelters. In the Caribbean,
Gilbert cut communications links, causing officials to improve
systems.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900914-0127"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

A strong association exists between seasonal rainfall in West Africa
and the formation of intense hurricanes. Hurricanes form from strong
winds sweeping across Africa and the Atlantic and gathering strength
as they pick up additional moisture.  Wet Sahel periods from
1870-1900, 1915-1935 and 1947-1969 correlate with higher hurricane
activity.  From 1970-1988, severe Sahel drought has correlated with
low hurricane activity, except for Gloria in 1985. Reduced hurricane
activity over these two decades spurred development in areas
vulnerable to hurricanes. Intense Caribbean hurricanes Gilbert, Joan
and Hugo of 1988 and 1989 may be the forerunners of increased
hurricane activity in the future.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901130-0060"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

In 1988 and 1989, the near normal rainfall in West Africa's Sahel, the
semi-arid land on the southern fringe of the Sahara Desert, may have
spawned Hurricane Gilbert in 1988 and Hugo in 1989. Gilbert wracked
the Caribbean and Hugo devastated South Carolina, two of the most
destructive Atlantic hurricanes ever. In this year's season, eight of
the 14 named storms became hurricanes, over the average of nine storms
and six hurricanes.  Hurricane Diana, sweeping into Mexico in early
August, was the most deadly. It caused flash floods and mudslides that
killed 96 people, and extensive damage to roads, property and
agriculture.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06169114"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

A 1926 hurricane, almost exactly the strength of Hugo which hit South
Carolina with 135 mph winds in September 1989, hit Miami when there
were no high-rises. Miami was also hit by legendary storms in 1947,
1949, and 1950. The last hurricane to hit was a small one named Cleo
in 1964. A 1935 hurricane with 200 mph winds, the strongest to hit the
continent, killed over 800 workers brought to build the Overseas
Highway through the Florida Keys when their evacuation train was
knocked off the tracks. In 1900 a hurricane surprised Galveston, Texas
and killed 6,000 people.</SUM>
