<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="WSJ870306-0171 AP900322-0192 FT933-8941 FT943-4951 FT943-5628
WSJ870908-0047 FT923-7126 FT923-5859 AP890131-0280 FT911-3463"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C">

De Beers Consolidated Mines LTD was established in 1988. The
Oppenheimer family has controlled it since 1929. It is a South African
company that owns and operates diamond mines, and through its
London-based Central Selling Organization, or CSO, markets its gem
quality diamonds and those from Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Angola,
Australia, Zaire and the Soviet Union. Eighty percent of the world's
gem quality diamonds are sold through the CSO to diamond dealers in
Antwerp, New York, Tel Aviv and Bombay.  The 15 percent of the world's
diamonds that are gems are prized for their show value, and their
value fluctuates with the world's prosperity. The United States is the
biggest market, and Japan is second.  In 1992 De Beers opened a new
diamond mine in South Africa. Elsewhere they experienced varying
problems between 1987 and 1994.  Dissolution of the Soviet Union
caused problems. In Britain the CSO was charged with monopolistic
practices.  Angola unleashed a flood of illicitly mined and marketed
diamonds. Botswana wanted to sell more of its valuable diamonds
independently.  There was a threat of nationalization in South
Africa. Despite all the problems De Beers was able to maintain control
of the diamond market.</SUM>
