<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870306-0171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C">                                                             
                                                         
De Beers Consolidated Mines LTD, the South African concern that
controls 80 percent of the world's uncut-diamond market, is thriving
four years after a serious slump in market price. Last year prices
rose 14 percent and sales soared to 2.56 billion dollars, doubling the
1.26 billion of 1982. De Beers accomplished this by convincing
producers, dealers and the jewelry industry that De Beers' marketing
research and advertising campaigns were essential. Ten times each year
the De Beers' Central Selling Organization, known as the Syndicate,
offers its cache of diamonds to dealers in Antwerp, Tel Aviv, Bombay
and New York on a take-it or leave-it-all basis.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870908-0047"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Next month the Central Selling Organization of De Beers is raising its
diamond prices by an average of ten percent. The price of a one-carat
D-flawless diamond has risen from 12,000 to 14,000 in the past eight
months. A carat weighs 200 milligrams. De Beers decided to raise
prices because of the higher demand for diamonds, particularly in
Japan.  The United States is the biggest diamond market. Japan is
second, responsible in large measure to De Beers' advertising and
promotion campaigns. Two of three Japanese couples now buy diamonds,
compared to one of 17 in 1967.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890131-0280"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The British Office of Fair Trade said Tuesday that it was
investigating a complaint alleging anti-competitive practices by the
De Beers-controlled Selling Organization. De Beers is a South African
company but its Selling Organization has been based in London for 60
years. The Selling Organization sells diamonds mined by De Beers in
South Africa, and trades on behalf of diamonds produced in other
countries, including Zaire, Botswana, Australia, and the Soviet
Union. Consolidated Gold Fields PLC, a British mining concern, filed
the complaint, saying that it wanted to spotlight the "monopolistic
tendencies" of the South African company.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0192"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Cecil Rhodes, the British industrialist colonist, founded the De Beers
Mining Company in 1888. The Oppenheimer family has controlled the
company since 1929. Diamond industry mavens think that 1990 will be a
critical year for De Beers. The African National Congress threatens to
nationalize South Africa's major sources of wealth if it takes
power. The company also faces varying problems in Botswana, Namibia,
Australia, and the Soviet Union. The company is confident that it will
retain its dominant position.  Countries that have dared to sell
diamonds outside the cartel have been forced to negotiate a return to
the cartel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-3463"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Botswana is the world's most important producer of valuable
diamonds. De Beers has had a special relationship with Botswana since
1987 when Botswana sold its diamond stockpile to De Beers for 250
million dollars and a 5.27 percent share in the company.  The contract
between Botswana and De Beers expired on December 31, 1990. A new
contract is being negotiated, and Botswana wants to sell some of its
output independently. De Beers rejects that. Argyle Diamonds of
Australia is also negotiating a new contract with De Beers. Australia
ranks first in volume of diamonds produced, but only sixth in terms of
value.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-7126"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

A small number of gem quality diamonds have been discovered in
Canada's Northwest Territories. Activity there is hectic, but it is
unlikely that the world's diamond market will notice. The large number
of illegally mined diamonds reaching the market from Angola has
disturbed the De Beers' marketing arm. They are buying up as many
Angolan diamonds as they possibly can to stabilize prices when demand
is depressed. The De Beers-controlled cartel has survived by
controlling prices, partly because diamonds are not
essential. Diamonds of gem quality are prized for their show value,
but there are ready substitutes for diamonds used in industry.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5859"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

In 1990 De Beers' London-based Central Selling Organization, CSO,
signed a five billion dollar contract with the former Soviet
Union. After the USSR break-up, the contract was continued with
Rosalmazzoloto, the Russian gold and diamond organization. Most of the
diamonds come from Siberia, now an autonomous
republic. Russian-Siberian friction prompted Mr. Harry Oppenheimer to
schedule a visit to Russia and Siberia to insure that the De Beers
grip on the diamond market is not weakened. A trade newspaper is
reporting that two Belgian trading organizations are being temporarily
excluded from CSO "sights", presumably for refusing diamond at a
previous "sight".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8941"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

An Australian based company, known as Auridiam, is raising capital to
further develop the River Ranch diamond mine located in Southern
Zimbabwe. De Beers mined the site after discovering diamonds in 1975,
but gave up rights to it in 1991 when the Zimbabwe government insisted
that all diamonds would have to be sold through the state-controlled
Ministry of Mines. Most of River Ranch's gem diamonds are small,
typically under a half-carat. The mine has yielded some larger
stones. Annual production is expected to reach 300,000 carats. De
Beers sees that figure as no threat to their marketing cartel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-5628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

De Beers' Venetia mine began production in 1992, and was the first new
diamond mine to open in South Africa in 25 years. Production was
curtailed for a while after opening when the De Beers' selling cartel
imposed quotas on producers because of a flood of gems from Angola,
and uncertainty about Russian exports. Last year the mines output
doubled. About 70 percent of Ventia's diamonds are of gem quality, and
annual production is expected to reach 500 million dollars. That
production will help the De Beers' marketing arm to maintain control
of the marketing of the world's output of rough gem diamonds.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-4951"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The value of the gems coming out of the Jwaneng mine in Botswana marks
it as the world's richest diamond mine. De Beers and the Zimbabwe
government each control half of Debswana, the company that owns
Jwaneng. The De Beers' owned Finsch mine in South Africa has operated
as an open pit mine since 1964, and now underground development has
extended its projected life by 35 to 40 years. The prospects of
productive yields from Jwaneng and Finsch are evidence of De Beers'
faith in its ability to control the diamond market in the long run
despite short-term difficulties.</SUM>
