<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880629-0159"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Two USAF F-16 Fighter jets from the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing at Hahn
AFB crashed in the air while on a training mission at 1:30 pm today
six miles south of Mainz. One F- 16 rammed the other from behind and
both exploded on impact. One pilot was killed and the other ejected
safely. They crashed near a populated area but no one on the ground
was hurt.

At noon today, 90 miles away, an F-16 from the 52nd Tactical Fighter
Wing at Spangdahlen AFB crashed into the Black Forest while taking
part in a NATO exercise.  That pilot ejected safely.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880902-0062"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A US F-16C jet belonging to the 14th Tactical Fighter Squadron at
Misawa crashed today in Iwate, a remote forested area of northern
Japan, about 290 miles north of Tokyo. The pilot, Maj. Wyman
E. Vanedoe, ejected safely and was taken by Japanese rescue helicopter
to the US airbase at Misawa, 360 miles north of Tokyo. The aircraft
was on a routine training flight with two other F-16s in partly cloudy
skies.

On March 22, 1987, another F-16 crashed in the Pacific off
Misawa. That pilot also bailed out and was rescued by
helicopter. About 50 F-16s are stationed at Misawa.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0129"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

An F-14 jet fighter, attached to Fighter Squadron 143 at Oceana Naval
Air Station in Virginia Beach, plunged into the Atlantic today off
Hatteras, NC, while practicing combat maneuvers with another F-14 and
an A-4 in restricted military airspace. One crewman is dead and
another missing.

Six people were injured Monday afternoon when another F-14 crashed
into hangars at Gillespie Field in the San Diego suburb of El
Cajon. The two Navy aviators ejected.  An F-16 jet fighter assigned to
Tactical Fighter Wing 388 in northern Utah crashed at 9:05am MDT today
while on a routine training flight. The pilot ejected safely.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881206-0114"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A B-52 bomber crashed at K.I. Sawyer AFB at 1:15am today while
practicing touch and go landings after a seven-hour training
flight. Another was damaged February 11th when a pilot aborted takeoff
at Castle AFB in California.

A B-52 with radar problems crashed October 1984 in Arizona's Monument
Valley after its wings clipped a mesa. Two crew died.

Four B-1Bs--the B-52's successor--have crashed, one smashing onto a
runway at Ellsworth AFB, SD, during a Nov. 17th training flight, and
one in a field near Dyess AFB, TX on Nov 8th.

Six crew died Oct. 11th when an AF tanker crashed at Wurtsmith
AFB.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881210-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A USAF A-10 Thunderbolt II jet tore through a working-class
neighborhood in Remscheid, Germany, Thursday, killing six people. The
pilot inadvertently flew into clouds while attempting close formation
with another aircraft, then initiated a separation maneuver, which is
normal when two aircraft in formation lose visual contact. The lead
aircraft climbed but the second A-10 continued descending, perhaps
disoriented.  Witnesses reported fire in one engine before the
crash. A temporary suspension of low- level missions was ordered. 12
major military aircraft accidents have killed 95 people this year,
including 70 people killed at an August air show crash at the US base
at Ramstein.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A USAF A-10 attack jet, assigned to the 10th Tactical Fighter Wing at
RAF Alconbury, crashed and burned about 25 miles north of Cambridge,
England, today at 9:53am, while on a routine training flight. The
pilot ejected.  Statistically, the A-10 Thunderbolt II is one of the
safest planes in the AF inventory. It has been used since 1977 and the
USAF currently has 700.

On Dec. 8th an A-10 crashed into the Tohono O'Odham Indian Reservation
in Tracy, Arizona, 80 miles west of Tucson. The pilot ejected
safely. On the same day, another A- 10 crashed into Remscheid,
Germany, killing five.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA103089-0070"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A T-2 Buckeye, a two-seat jet trainer, crashed Sunday on the flight
deck of the aircraft carrier Lexington in the Gulf of Mexico, killing
five and doing major damage to two other aircraft. The 46-year old
Lexington, the Navy's oldest carrier, is used exclusively for training
and was 17 miles south of its home port of Pensacola. The jet was
assigned to Training Squadron 19, based at the Meridian, Miss., Naval
Air Station. Because of Navy concern that fuel cells aboard the jet
might explode after being damaged in the crash, the Coast Guard sent a
team of ordnance experts to the carrier.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900829-0120"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

At 12:30am Wednesday, a US C-5A transport plane took off from Ramstein
AFB in West Germany, clipped the tops of trees then crashed into a
field. 13 were killed. The 20- year old plane, from the 60th Military
Airlift Squadron at Travis AFB in California, was bound for Rhein-Mein
AFB near Frankfurt, carrying supplies and equipment for US troops in
Saudi Arabia. This was the first crash of a C-5 in 15 years.  On April
4, 1975, a C-5B carrying Vietnamese orphans crashed shortly after
takeoff near Saigon, killing 172. Two years ago a collision during an
air show at Ramstein killed 70.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901010-0036"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A USAF F-111 fighter-bomber, attached to the 48th Tactical Fighter
Wing based at RAF Lakenheath Air Base in Britain, crashed at dawn
today in southern Saudi Arabia while on a training mission, killing
both crew members. It was the fourth US aircraft deployed for
Operation Desert Shield to crash in 3 days.

Eight marines are missing in the crash of two UH-1 Huey helicopters in
the northern Arabian Sea on Monday.

A USAF F-4 reconnaissance jet also went down Monday, killing both crew
members.

13 other USAF personnel were killed in the crash of a C-5 jet cargo
plane in Germany.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901012-0032"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A USAF F-111 fighter-bomber crashed Wednesday on a training mission in
Saudi Arabia, killing both crew. A USAF F-4 Phantom reconnaissance jet
crashed there Monday, killing two pilots. Two Marine Corps UH-1 Huey
helicopters crashed over the Arabian Sea hours earlier, killing all
eight crew. An F-15E also crashed in the gulf area.  A C-5 ferrying
equipment to the gulf crashed in West Germany.  20 other aircraft,
including 15 helicopters, have been involved in non-fatal accidents in
the gulf area since Desert Shield began. USAF Desert Shield war planes
have been grounded for 24 hours.  The number of accidents was not
unexpected for a 700-aircraft operation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-4674"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A US F-15 fighter belonging to the 44th Fighter Squadron of the 18th
Wing crashed on take-off from the Kadena Air Base on Okinawa at 0924
on 4 April. The fighter was on a routine training mission and the
crash occurred within the base's facilities, about 800 meters
northeast of a runway. The pilot ejected safely. After the crash,
Japan's Defense Facilities Administration Agency asked the command of
the US Forces in Japan to take thorough measures for safe management
of the US military bases on Okinawa and conduct a thorough
investigation into the cause of the crash.</SUM>
