<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas is the product of harsh Southern
history.  He was abandoned by his father, raised by grandparents,
attended an all-black Catholic school, and went on to Holy Cross
College and Yale, starting out as a liberal who became increasingly
conservative.  Missouri Attorney General Danforth recruited Thomas for
his office and when Danforth became a senator, Thomas joined his
staff.  Thomas became chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission in 1982.  Liberals fear that a Justice Thomas would work to
reverse civil rights gains of recent years, but his supporters see him
as a centrist.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Clarence Thomas would be a very different justice than Thurgood
Marshall.  Thomas' departure from civil rights orthodoxy on quotas and
government handouts impressed the Reagan administration, and Thomas is
a great admirer of Reagan and Robert Bork.  Thomas now sits on the
Court of Appeals and before that was chairman of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission for eight years.  Thomas believes that there is
a difference between the role of a judge and that of a policy maker.
Thomas had battled with the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.  He
made an enemy of the AARP who said that as EEOC chairman, Thomas let
legal protections for the elderly lapse.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06255434"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Critics see Virginia Thomas, wife of the Supreme Court nominee, as a
woman with strong opinions on issues which may come before the Court.
She lobbied against comparable-worth legislation for women, and once
belonged to Lifespring, a motivational group which troubles some
religious rights groups.  Some blacks see Clarence Thomas' marriage to
a white woman as a rejection of his roots and the black community.
Both Thomases believe that women and minorities have been hindered
rather than helped by affirmative action and government programs.
Virginia Thomas has worked for a Republican Congressman, for the US
Chamber of Commerce, and has been an official in the Labor
Department.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184088"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Some Democratic and Republican senators have differed on the extent to
which Supreme Court nominees should have their views on controversial
issues brought out in confirmation hearings.  Confirmation hearings
for Clarence Thomas are to begin after Congress' August recess.
President Bush has rejected suggestions that his selection of Thomas
is to replace a black with a black.  Some Democratic senators are
expected to oppose the selection but at this point, the party's big
guns, Judicial Chairman Biden, Majority Leader Mitchell, and Edward
Kennedy say only that they promise a thorough review of the
nomination.  Thomas declined to answer questions on his legal views
until then.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184021"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas credits his achievements to his
grandparents, who shaped his views on individualism, race and society.
Some black political activists are suspicious of Thomas for those
views, but it has been pointed out that his views are in the tradition
of Booker T.  Washington who advocated education, self-reliance and
mutual support.  Thomas, who had attended an all-black Catholic
school, also thanked the nuns.  At one time he had wanted to become a
priest and was accepted at a seminary, but reaction by other
seminarians disgusted him so he left after one year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06290146"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Leola Williams, mother of now Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas
celebrated the news that her son was confirmed to the High Court.  As
the votes were announced she began to sing a spiritual and said that
she never doubted the outcome.  Asked what she would say to Anita Hill
if given the chance, Mrs Williams said she would tell her to
pray. "She needs God bad..."  Local residents in Pinpoint, Georgia,
the hometown of Thomas shared in Williams' celebration and joined her
in saying the 23rd Psalm.  They had believed and supported Thomas
during the hearings.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184003"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Clarence Thomas has risen in Republican ranks as an advocate of
bootstrap conservatism.  He would be a striking change from the man he
seeks to replace: Thurgood Marshall.  Thomas came of age in the world
that Marshall helped create but may be of a mind to dismantle
Marshall' legacy.  Conservatives, who support the nomination, and
liberals, who oppose, have only Thomas' opposition to affirmative
action as a guide to his views.  His views on controversial issues,
such as abortion, are not known.  Rights groups remain
cautious. Democratic senators who voted for Thomas for the Court of
Appeals say that does not automatically mean a vote for the Supreme
Court appointment.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900306-0105"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

The Senate confirmed Clarence Thomas as a Judge on the US Circuit
Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia on a voice vote brushing
aside complaints from some liberal and senior citizens groups.  Thomas
was one of the most visible Blacks in the Reagan and Bush
Administrations as Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission.  He was a critic of quotas and affirmative action.  He was
praised by conservatives and criticized by liberals.  Senator Pryor,
Chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, complained that the
statute of limitations on 15,000 age discrimination cases ran out
while Thomas was EEOC Chairman.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06246065"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Clarence Thomas, President Bush's nominee to join the increasingly
conservative Supreme Court has, over the years, undergone a dramatic
political and philosophical transformation.  As a youth, he shared the
liberal attitudes of many bright young black people who came of age
after the freedom rides.  As a Holy Cross College student in the
1960s, he joined black protesters, he had a wall poster of Malcolm X.
At Yale Law School, where Thomas was admitted while an affirmative
action program was in effect, he began his transformation to his
present ideology.  Some critics attribute his transition to
conservatism as opportunism.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910709-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Former Reagan and Bush speech writer Peggy Noonan suggests that
Supreme Court nominee is living proof that in America anything is
possible.  He overcame humble beginnings and made it in America
because he was loved.  His triumph declares that a good man of
whatever color can rise in this country without the active assistance
of the state.  Ms Noonan hopes that the administration will go
straight to the people and present the mother, grandmother, and nuns
that helped open his eyes.  She also hopes that the administration
will demonstrate moral confidence in its choice and not become
defensive.</SUM>
