<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870123-0101"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">

President Reagan has made welfare reform a priority.  His Domestic
Policy Council drafted a blueprint giving states wider latitude to
experiment with reform.  Many governors have unveiled plans of their
own.

A welfare lobbying coalition of 80 organizations has issued a
statement calling for increased spending for poverty and jobs
programs.  They insist that the federal government has "primary
responsibility" for welfare.  Congressional Democrats seem to agree
with them.  Americans are already spending more than $100 billion a
year on welfare.  It may be necessary for Reagan to form an alliance
of reform-minded governors and the public to change the status
quo.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870227-0149"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
 
The National Governors Association presented a welfare reform plan to
President Reagan that would require welfare recipients to do something
productive to earn their benefits, be it completing school, receiving
vocational training or holding a job.  The governors' proposal will
cost $2 billion per year in addition to the $100 billion now spent on
poverty programs.  Reagan doesn't like their plan's national minimum
benefit level, which he believes will undercut each states' ability to
set its own standard.  Several states have already launched successful
work-for-welfare programs, thus encouraging many other states to try
something similar. Reform consensus seems to be building.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871215-0109"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
The goal of welfare reform should be: to shrink the welfare system, to
eliminate perverse incentives to remain on welfare, and to make work
the focus of reform.  Many believe the House of Representative's
Family Welfare Reform Act of 1987 fails to do that.  It proposes $5.2
billion in new spending over five years, most to expand existing
welfare programs.  Proponents say the new money is an investment, that
some money will go to new programs to induce welfare recipients off
the rolls and into jobs.  Detractors say it amounts to an expanded
investment in the status quo.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880903-0092"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
A House-Senate conference committee has before it two welfare reform
bills --- the Senate-passed bill containing a work requirement, the
House-approved measure without.  President Reagan stated that
unemployment was near a 14-year low.  He would veto any welfare
legislation not containing a work requirement.

Rep. Thomas J. Downey, D-N.Y., states that 32.5 million Americans
remain mired in poverty.  He feels that state and local, not federal,
welfare officials should control any welfare work requirement.  He
believes that the House bill, with training and education programs,
and health and child-care benefits, would make welfare parents who
work better off than those who don't.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-11394"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
     
President Clinton states that he is committed to "ending welfare as we
know it."  He will base his reforms on the principle that welfare
should not be a way of life.  His reform will focus on better
implementation of the Family Support Act, a 1988 welfare reform based
on NGA task-force work that he, as governor of Arkansas, co-chaired.
However, with the onset of recession, states' revenues are constrained
while the number of welfare recipients has increased.  Therefore, few
states are able to implement the Act's requirements for education or
training.  Clinton will allow states to experiment with their own
reforms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-6011"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
Clinton campaigned on welfare reform.  But, as president, he is first
addressing two higher priorities: deficit reduction and healthcare
reform, both of which, he believes, will help alleviate welfare.  He
has improved the earned income tax credit and will enforce laws
requiring financial support from absentee fathers.  These measures may
help but will not solve America's welfare problems.  Many
conservatives favor a strict time limit, two years, for welfare.  Most
people consider this too drastic.  Something like an FDR public sector
works program, although probably not affordable, might work.  Many
think the bipartisan Family Support Act of 1988 is the answer.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-12800"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
          
Fundamental welfare reform is needed within the 24 member nations of
the Organization for Economic Co-operation if these states are to
protect their most vulnerable citizens without endangering their
economies.  Welfare costs, principally for pensions, healthcare,
unemployment benefits and family support are rapidly becoming
insupportable.  The costliest item is pensions, which continue to grow
due to increased coverage, benefit levels and an aging population.  By
the year 2040, people over age 65 will rise from their current 19% of
total population to 37%.  In a competitive global economy, no country
can burden its businesses with higher welfare costs than its
neighbors.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-11014"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
  
The Clinton administration has given approval for pilot welfare plans
in Wisconsin and Georgia.  The Wisconsin plan cuts off cash payments
after two years but continues food stamps and health care.  The
Georgia plan does not have a time limit for benefits, but reduces
payments to able-bodied adults who refuse offers of work and denies
increased benefits to long-time welfare mothers who have more
children.  The federal government, which must grant waivers from
normal welfare rules, is also considering requests from Florida and
Vermont for time limits on benefits.  National welfare reform is
delayed until the budget and healthcare reform are resolved.</SUM>
