<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890117-0132"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

In Long Beach, the City Council asked county prosecutors to
investigate the conduct of a white policeman who was secretly filmed
while he pushed an off-duty policeman through a plate-glass window.

The black Hawthorne policeman, Sgt. Don Jackson, said he set up the
self-styled "sting" in Long Beach and had an NBC-News camera crew
arranged to follow him to expose alleged police racism in the Los
Angeles area.

Following the incident which was broadcast on NBC's national news
Monday night, the police chief in Long Beach declined to comment on
the incident pending an investigation.  City officials promised a
thorough inquiry.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890930-0100"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

In Chicago two days of racially charged hearing on police brutality
and a report detailing widespread segregation in the nation's
third-largest city show the new mayor must still heal some old wounds.

Richard M. Daley was elected mayor April 4 and is already faced with
complaints of police brutality. Some black politicians say the mayor
is indirectly sanctioning racism by not doing enough to stop it.

The City Council called two days of special hearings last week where
blacks alleged they were the victims of police brutality accused
officers, most of them white, of unprovoked beatings, false arrests,
intimidation and insulting them with racial slurs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890322-0010"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Allegations of police racism and brutality have shaken Minneapolis
following the deaths of two blacks at a drug raid that went awry.
Another incident 10-days later involved a scuffle between police and
blacks at a downtown hotel.

In the first incident, Lloyd Smalley, 71 and Lillian Weiss, 65 were
killed Jan. 25 in a fire that started after police hurled a stun
grenade into their apartment, where others also lived.

In the hotel scuffle, police said they responded to a call of a loud
party.  Partygoers alleged that officers used the term "nigger," and
beat some of them severely enough to require them to seek medical
attention.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06283083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

The Sheriff's Department in Los Angeles attempted to maintain a low
profile following the videotaped beating of Rodney King.  Now, Sheriff
Sherman Block finds his department being carefully scrutinized after
deputies shot four people dead in the space of one month.  Three
deputies were charged with stealing credit cards and there are
allegations that the department is a haven for white supremacist
gangs.

An independent commission that examined the police department
following the King beating found racism, brutality, inadequate
discipline, mismanagement and a "siege mentality" pitting officers
against the community.

Now, critics are calling for the same kind of independent
investigation of the sheriff's department.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA010890-0031"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

A controversial videotape being shown among activists nationwide shows
Los Angeles police officers intentionally hurting the nonviolent
demonstrators they are arresting.

They press fingers under their noses.  They dig their knuckles into
protesters' necks and torque martial arts weapons around their wrists.

The law enforcement name for these techniques is "pain-compliance."
But opponents call the term a euphemism for torture.  One man's arm is
contorted behind his back until it snaps.

Demonstrators have alleged police brutality at least since Freedom
Riders launched their sit-down strikes in Alabama almost 30 years ago.

Police Chief Daryl Gates stands behind the painful tactics used by his
department.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0148"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

In Los Angeles a commission that investigated police tactics following
the videotaped beating of Rodney King have finally released their
report.  The report paints a distressing picture of brutality and
racism and calls for the resignation of police chief Daryl Gates.

The commission found that a significant number of officers use
excessive force against Los Angeles residents, a problem exacerbated
by racism in the department.

Nearly one-quarter of 650 officers responding to a commission survey
agreed that "racial bias on the part of officers toward minority
citizens currently exists and contributes to a negative interaction
between police and community."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191081"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

The American Civil Liberties Union called for Los Angeles Police Chief
Daryl Gates to resign after the March 3 incident in which white police
officers repeatedly struck Rodney King with batons, kicked him and
shocked him with a stun gun after pulling him over for speeding.

A bystander's videotape of the beating prompted a federal
investigation of police brutality.

Mayor Tom Bradley also asked Gates to step down.  But Gates was
appointed by the Police Commission and cannot be fired by the mayor.

A panel that investigated the Police Department after the beating of
King decided not to seek Chief Gates' resignation and neither blamed
or cleared him.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA011889-0067"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

The Los Angeles County district attorney's office and the FBI are
investigating a videotaped incident in which a white Long Beach police
officer appeared to shove a black man's face into a plate glass window
after a routine traffic stop.

The FBI has also been called in to determine whether the civil rights
of the man who was arrested "Don Jackson, a sergeant on administrative
leave for the Hawthorne Police Department" were violated.

The accused officer, Mark Dickey, who had been cleared of a prior
misconduct charge has been reassigned from patrol duty to the
detective bureau while the investigation continues.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06129119"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

A police officer that had been cleared by the internal affairs office
in Santa Clara of any wrong doing in a brutality case was later
arrested and prosecuted by the district attorney.

The offending officer's police report indicated that the suspect's
injuries were due to a fall from his bike and that he appeared
unconscious, although he had also struggled against being handcuffed.

But four citizens called to complain that they had witnessed the
arrest and that the suspect at no time resisted arrest. Witnesses said
the officer taunted the suspect, knelt on his stomach, beat him
numerous times with his club and kicked him in his face.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06195131"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

In-mid June, a lawsuit against the Los Angeles Police Department was
settled when police agreed to stop using a martial-arts weapon,
nunchakus, against anti-abortion advocates.

Hundreds have charged that police have used excessive force in 50
cities across the United States against demonstrators, most associated
with Operation Rescue, intent on closing down abortion clinics.

The settlement over police use of nunchakus and other painful tactics
against anti- abortion demonstrators receive little attention from
civil right groups, the public or the press.  That may reflect a lack
of public support for groups who attempt to close facilities to deny
the rights of others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-10200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates has been accused of nurturing one
of the most brutal police forces in the country.  In his 14 years of
office, his critics say he has built a police force in his own image:
aggressive, insensitive and widely tinged with racism.

In 1978, Mr. Gates told a Hispanic audience that Hispanic officers
were not promoted because they were lazy and that the often fatal
choke hold used by police might be more dangerous for blacks because
their arteries did not open up as fast as on "normal" people.

Following numerous calls for his resignation, Mr. Gates has decided to
step down in June.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080790-0111"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Police attacked former Cincinnati Reds second baseman Joe Morgan
knocking him to the floor and handcuffing him in Los Angeles
International Airport.  The plainclothes detective, Clayton Searle was
looking for the companion of a suspected drug courier.

The 46-year old Morgan is suing the city of Los Angeles in federal
court, claiming that he was unfairly targeted because he is a black
and fit a certain "profile" that narcotics think a drug courier should
look like.

Last year the Supreme Court ruled that government agents may stop and
question airline passengers who look and act like drug "couriers" but
not just on race or appearance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030489-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

A white Long Beach police officer that allegedly pushed a black man
through a plate- glass window during an arrest that was videotaped
acknowledged Friday in a hearing that he made errors in his official
report.  He blamed the discrepancies on a faulty memory, saying he
wrote the report three hours after the incident.

Sen. Daniel Boatwright, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee on
State Procurement and Expenditure Practices, called the hearing into
the incident to review allegations of police misconduct in Long
Beach. The legislative committee monitors state funds disbursed to
police departments by the state Police Officer Standards and Training
Commission.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901029-0035"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

In Kansas City, Terry D. Barnes, 24, was shot between the eyes in his
own apartment when police mistook him for a burglar. This incident is
one more strike against a police force already struggling with
allegations of brutality and racism.

In June, several white officers bloodied a Nigerian-born Roman
Catholic priest with nightsticks as he lay on the ground.  In May,
another black clergyman was hit on the head with a shotgun by a white
officer while lying on the ground.

Police Chief Steven Bishop said that the department's standing has
fallen in the community, and a "behavior modification" program is
being developed for offending officers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071590-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Over the past two years, the Ventura County district attorney's office
in four separate incidents has declined to prosecute suspects who
contended that they were victims of police brutality while being
arrested for various offenses by Oxnard officers.  A fifth man was
charged with a misdemeanor.

Three of the five men have filed police brutality lawsuits against the
city, the department or the police officers involved.

Assistant Police Chief William Kady declined to discuss the brutality
allegations against the Oxnard officers but he said that the decision
by the district attorney's office not to prosecute the suspects do not
reflect poorly on the department.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910405-0154"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

The brutal beating of Rodney King by Los Angeles policemen offers
convincing evidence that a code of silence exists within that
department.  Four officers took turns kicking and beating an
unresisting victim for more than two minutes.  These criminals in
uniform would not have dared their brutality had they feared that any
of the 17 others officers watching would report their criminal
actions.

Police Chiefs across the country seem to be just as reluctant to
criticize a fellow chief.  The culture of the department that allowed
the brutalizing of Rodney King was created under Chief Daryl Gates's
leadership.  Yet his fellow police chiefs have remained silent for
years about Mr. Gates.</SUM>
