<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
In mid-1991 the Gulf War and President Bush`s high approval ratings
kept Democratic candidates for the 1992 presidential election in the
shadows.  The apathy of likely Democratic candidates was compounded by
the coyness of Gov Cuomo of New York regarding his intentions.  The
Democratic problem was exasperated by a philosophical dilemma: whether
to follow the liberal line [ choice of the party faithful] or the
moderate line [ choice of the voters].  Gov. Clinton, former chairman
of the moderate leaning Democratic Leadership Council, seemed to be in
the best position to follow the moderate path.  The recession in the
last years of Bush`s presidency and his perceived apathy toward the
problem gave the Democrats an opening. Remedial proposals ranged from
a middle class tax cut to "more government spending".  In December
1991 a straw poll at a state Democratic Convention in Florida was won
by Gov. Clinton by 54%.  On the same day the candidates engaged in a
nationally televised debate.  One point of agreement was on the need
for a national health care program.  In Jan.  1992 when the campaign
began in earnest, Gov.Clinton sought to blur the distinction between
foreign and domestic policies by saying that national security is
largely economic.
</SUM>
XS
