<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
In Mid-1991, the Gulf War and President Bush's high approval rating
kept democratic candidates for the 1992 presidential election in the
shadows.  New Hampshire democratic leaders planning the speaking
program for their 1990 state convention found no takers to their
invitation.  The democratic scene was marked by inactivity on the part
of likely candidates such as: Jesse Jackson, Sens. Gore, Harkin and
Rockefeller and Govs.  Clinton and Wilder.  The wildcard in this was
the intentions of Gov.  Cuomo.  This situation was later worsened by
defections from the race by Sen. Gore, Bradley and Rockefeller and
Rep. Gephardt.  The most promising aspirant was Gov. Bill Clinton who
was regarded as an attractive, forceful and telegenic campaigner.  A
factor in this democratic mahalse(?) was the fact that democrats had
lost five of the last six elections.  This was attributed to a
democratic dilemma - whether to follow the liberal line which the
party faithful wanted or to follow the moderate line which the voters
wanted.  Gov. Clinton, a former chairman of the moderate leaning
democratic leadership council seemed to be in the best position to
follow the moderate path.  The prolonged recession in the last years
of Bush's presidency gave an issue to the democrats.  Voters were
unhappy with Bush's passive approach to this recession.  The
democratic candidates focused on three questions: 1.  What can be done
in the near term, 2. and in the long term, and 3. will it address
middle class concerns.  Democratic proposals ranged from a middle
class tax cut to a more traditional "more government spending."  In
Dec. 1991 at a democratic convention in Florida a straw poll was taken
regarding the, by now, six candidates for the nomination.  Gov.  Bill
Clinton won that vote by 54%.  On the same day the candidates engaged
in 1.5 hour debate on live TV.  During this debate Sen. Harkin, Iowa,
compared Bush to King George III of England.  Clinton referred to Bush
as Scrooge.  The candidates agreed on the need for a national
healthcare program.  In Jan. 1992 the campaign began in earnest and
the democrats sought to blur the distinction between domestic and
foreign policy (the cold war was over) by portraying foreign policy as
a tool to advance America's economic well-being.  Gov. Clinton put it
this way, "foreign and domestic policy are inseparable in today's
world--national security is largely economic."  Sen. Kerry proposed
the creation of a multilateral trade organization which would strive
to open world markets.
</SUM>
