<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP890228-0019 LA122989-0046 AP880509-0036 AP890917-0009
AP900520-0031 AP900622-0025 AP890123-0150 AP891101-0150"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The magnitude of earthquakes is measured on the Richter Scale. The
scale is logarithmic.  Every increase of one integer on the scale
represents a tenfold increase in magnitude.  A quake measuring 6.5 is
ten times stronger than one measuring 5.5. A quake that registers a 7
on the scale is considered a major quake capable of widespread damage,
and a magnitude of 8 means a great earthquake capable of
devastation. The area in which they occur and the environment of that
area greatly affects the number of casualties and the damage
inflicted.

One of the deadliest earthquakes to hit Asia or Africa between January
1988 and June 1990 occurred in Armenia in December 7, 1988. It
registered 6.9 on the Richter and caused 25,000 deaths A Soviet report
blamed the high death toll on the shoddily constructed buildings in
the area. A quake of 7.7 magnitude that hot Iran in June 1990 resulted
in a death toll similar to that of the Armenian disaster. Not only was
it in an area of fragile buildings, but it came when people were
sleeping.

An example of an earthquake of great magnitude that caused little
damage occurred was the one in Southern Sudan in May 1990. The quake
measured 7.5, but it hit in an isolated area. The only other quake in
Africa between January 1988 and June 1990 occurred in South Africa in
January 1998. It registered 5.2 and left eight dead.

An example of an earthquake of a lesser magnitude that caused great
damage was the one that hit the Tadzhikistan in January 1989. It
measured only 5.2 but it unleashed a mudslide that buried two small
towns and resulted in 1,000 deaths.

Another deadly earthquake, this one measuring 6.6 on the Richter Scale
killed 1,000 when it hit along the Nepal-India border in August
1988. Still another significant quake in Asia occurred along the
Burma-China in November 1988. It registered 7.3 and left 730 dead.

Japan is one of the most seismically active areas in the world, but
the country experienced only three quakes during the period. One off
Hokkaido and another off Honshu did little damage. Ten were killed in
a quake in the Tokyo area in January 1988. Despite the relatively
quiet period, congested Tokyo, sitting atop the meeting point of three
tectonic plates, is under the threat of a quake that could cause
devastation as great as that of the 1923 earthquake.  </SUM>
