<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880509-0036"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

A strong earthquake that measured 5.2 on the Richter Scale rocked the
northern Japanese Island of Kokkaido at about at about 7:45 local time
today. Three hours earlier a quake of similar strength off the
Philippine Island of Luzon was felt in Manila. Every increase of one
integer on the scale represents a tenfold increase in strength, thus a
quake measuring 5.2 is ten times stronger than one of 4.2. Today's
quakes caused little damage because they occurred far below the
earth's surface. The last quake to cause great destruction in Hokkaido
occurred in 1968. It measure 7.9 and claimed 52 lives.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890123-0150"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

An earthquake struck in the Soviet Republic of Tadzhikistan at 5
A.M. local time today.  It measured 5.4 on the Richter Scale. The
quake unleashed a 50-foot wall of dirt and sodden mud that buried two
small towns. The center of the quake was located about 25 miles
southwest of Dushanbe, the capital of the republic. It is estimated
that 1,000 are dead; most of them peasants who were buried beneath mud
as they slept. This is the second quake to hit the Soviet Union in
less than two months. A destructive quake in Armenia on December 7
registered 6.9 and left 25,000 dead.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890228-0019"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
 
The earthquake that killed 25,000 in Armenia last December was the
largest contributor to the 1998 worldwide death toll, the largest
since 1976 when 255,000 died in a single quake in China. The year's
second deadliest earthquake occurred along the Nepal-India border on
August 20. It claimed 1,000 victims. Another Asian earthquake, this
along the Burma-China border on November 6 left 730 dead. Only three
were killed on August 6 in a quake on the India-Burma border. A Tokyo
area quake that killed ten was Japans' only significant quake in 1988.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890917-0009"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

A strong earthquake centered in Soviet Azerbaijan shook the Caspian
Sea region early Sunday. One report said the quake measured 6.5 on the
Richter Scale, and another said 5.6. Teheran and other cities in
northern Iran were jolted. There was no word on casualties. It was the
third temblor in that region in the last five days. Iran is shaken by
hundreds of earthquakes every year that measure from 2.5 to 5.5 on the
Richter Scale and most do little damage. The last major quake in Iran
happened in September 1978. It measured 7.7 and caused 25,000 deaths.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891101-0150"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

A major earthquake registering 7.1 on the Richter Scale struck off
Honshu early today. It was centered 60 miles off the coast and at a
depth of 20 miles. No casualties have been reported, but officials
fear a seismic tidal wave. Over the past few weeks a series of lesser
quakes have occurred in the same general area. Today's quake is the
strongest in the area sine March 1931, more than 58 years ago. A major
fault runs under Japan, and it is the reason for frequent quakes, but
most of them cause little damage.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA122989-0046"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Tokyo experienced a devastating earthquake in 1923 that resulted in
143,000 deaths.  Experts feel that Tokyo is likely to experience
another crushing quake. The city is situated over the meeting point of
the Eurasian, Philippine and Pacific plates, three of the giant
tectonic plates that make up the earths' crust, and they are grinding
together and setting the stage for a catastrophe. An earthquake
measuring eight on the Richter Scale could result in 150,000
deaths. Japan is moving ahead on research and is trying to develop the
worlds best warning system, but nothing can reduce the geological
hazard under the city.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900520-0031"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

A major earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Richter Scale hit Southern
Sudan on Sunday. A quake of that magnitude is capable of causing
widespread destruction. The quake's epicenter was in an isolated
swampland 700 miles from Khartoum, and little damage has been
reported. Flights were going in and out of Juba, the nearest large
city. The epicenter was a little west of the Great African Rift, an
earthquake line that runs from Mozambique through the Red Sea to
Lebanon, but it was the first dangerous earthquake to be reported in
that area.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900622-0025"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The earthquake that hit Northern Iran on Thursday was similar to the
one that struck Armenia last December. Thursday's quake measured 7.7
on the Richter Scale; the one in Armenia measured 6.9. Shoddily
construction was cited as the major factor in the 25,000 deaths in
Armenia. Most of the victims in Thursday's quake also lived in fragile
homes, and the death toll could surpass the Armenian disaster because
the people were inside and asleep. Iran is a very active seismic
area. Twelve quakes of a magnitude greater than seven have hit Iran in
the last 30 years.  </SUM>
