<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880510-0178"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

The United States has denied an accusation by Yasser Arafat that the
United States is threatening to kill PLO officials if Palestinian
guerrillas attack American targets.  The State Department said it has
received reports that the PLO might target Americans because of
alleged US involvement in the assassination of Khalil Wazir.  The
PLO's second in command, in a raid on his house near Tunis on 16
April.  Israeli officials said that an Israeli squad carried out the
assassination.  Apparently, Arafat's claims stem from his
interpretation of US correspondence with Middle East countries about
possible PLO attacks against American citizens and facilities.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890704-0043"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

Suspected communist rebels on 4 July 1989 killed Col. Herminio Taylo,
police chief of Makati, the Philippines major financial center, in an
escalation of street violence sweeping the Capitol area.  The gunmen
shouted references to the rebel New People's Army.  They fled in a
commandeered passenger jeep.  The military says communist rebels have
killed up to 65 soldiers and police in the Capitol region since
January.  The New People's Army also claimed responsibility for the
April 21 assassination of a US Army colonel on his way to work at the
Joint Military Assistance Group headquarters in suburban Quezon
City.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0005"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

With a third presidential candidate assassinated, Columbia's
government refused to put off the 1990 election and vowed to keep up
the fight against drug traffickers.  The Medellin drug cartel denied
responsibility for the assassination of presidential candidate Carlos
Pizarro, who died in a hail of bullets Thursday aboard a Colombian
jetliner.  On the same day, a man called the national radio network
station and detailed how the cartel allegedly ordered the killing.
When a candidate was killed in August, the government launched a
US-backed crackdown on Colombia's cocaine cartels.  Since then, drug
traffickers have killed more than 230 people.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0108"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

Less than a month before the 1990 elections, a third presidential
candidate in Colombia, Carlos Pizarro, was assassinated in a jetliner
taking off from Bogota by a gunman on a suicide mission.  Pizarro's
bodyguards killed the assassin.  The assassination of the other two
candidates was blamed on drug traffickers.  The media, citing security
sources, reported that traffickers were the main suspects in Pizarro's
killing as well.  The Medallion cartel denied involvement.
Traffickers have killed nearly 300 Colombians in the past nine months
in an effort to halt the government's campaign to capture and expedite
drug barons to the United States.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901013-0046"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

The Egyptian government said Iraqi agents or Egyptian Moslem
fundamentalists were to blame for the assassination in October 1990 of
its second highest official, Rifaat el- Mahgoub.  He is the first
Egyptian politician assassinated since Islamic extremists shot
President Anwar Sadat nine years ago.  Four assassins riding two
motorbikes killed el- Mahgoub in a car.  The death toll from the
attack rose to six with the death of his chauffeur.

Interior Minister Abdel-Halim Mirissa had warned days earlier of such
an attack.  He said authorities arrested alleged saboteurs who were
entering the country with orders from Iraqi President Saddem Hussein
to assassinate Egyptian officials.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06143070"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

India's 1991 election process was postponed on May 22 when former
Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by a bomb explosion in
Striperumbudur, the capitol of Tamil Nadu.  At least 14 other people,
including a police officer, died in the blast.  In the opinion of some
Indian political leaders, Gandhi's death at age 46 marks the likely
end of the political dynasty that dominated Indian politics since
independence in 1947.  Others denounced the killing and urged the
country to remain calm.  Gandhi's Congress Party has many enemies
including separatists, leftist revolutionaries, and Hindi militants,
but namely hardened opponents in Tamil Nadu.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-23360"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

Lebanese security authorities, in coordination with Jordanian
authorities, unraveled the mystery of the assassination of Jordanian
diplomat Na'ib al-Ma'ayitah in Beirut on 29 January 1994.  Apparently,
the Abu-Nidal group is not the only party responsible for the
operation.  An investigation revealed that the Fatah Revolutionary
Council (FRC) carried out the assassination in coordination with the
Jordanian fundamentalist Islamic Mobilization Youth Organization
(IMYO).  When IMYO was exposed, several terrorist groups moved to
neighboring Arab countries; namely, Jordan and Iran.  The
assassination was intended as revenge against the Muslim Brotherhood
Movement in Jordan, which did not agree with the extremism of other
fundamentalists.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-11919"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

The assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio Murrieta, presidential
candidate for the Mexican Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) in
March 1994 in Tijuana, Baja California prompted expressions of
sympathy from neighboring countries.  Official condolences were sent
to the Mexican government by the President of Colombia, the ruling
party in El Salvador, and the Venezuelan Foreign Minister, all of whom
also expressed their support for Mexico.  The Cuban Foreign Ministry
expressed its shock and indignation at the incident.  Rival Mexican
candidates sent regrets noting the threat politicians face when they
appear at public rallies and that such violence was the result of
"savage capitalism."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-27602"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

A former member of the military prosecution investigation team which
probed the assassination of President Pak Chong-hui by then Central
Intelligence Director Kim Chae-kyu in October 1979, testified that
there was no evidence that then Army Chief of Staff and Martial Law
Commander, Gen. Chong Sung-kwa, was involved in the slaying.  The
charge was not based on concrete evidence but on what he did after Kim
killed Pak.  Accordingly, Chong was nearby when Pak was killed, and a
member of the investigation questioned him at the commander's office
on three occasions suspecting him to be part of a military elite
meeting.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT944-18184"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

The assassination in late September 1994 of Mr. Jose Francisco Ruiz
Massieu, the number two official in Mexico's ruling party, probably
removed doubts about the difficulty of reforming the Country's
political and judicial systems.  Mr. Ruiz Massieu's killing was
allegedly ordered by a federal deputy of the ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party (PRI) and a former tourism developer with strong
links to a Gulf drug cartel.  This alleged alliance has underlined
concerns that efforts by Mexico's next president, Ernesto Zedillo, to
reform the governing party will be met with fierce and violent
resistance from those who stand to lose from these changes.</SUM>
