
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890515-0232 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-05-15-89 1445EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>s a BC-APN--IsolatedColony Adv28-1stAdd   05-15 0981</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-APN--Isolated Colony, Adv 28-1st Add,1000</SECOND>
<HEAD>$Adv28</HEAD>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<HEAD>For Release Sunday, May 28</HEAD>
<HEAD>ORACLE, Ariz.: the bugs.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Even the scientists came to cross-purposes in designing this
little world. Botanists wanted wind for pollination. Entomologists
did not want their bugs sucked up by big fans. The people in the
middle were the engineers, constantly revising plans, compromising.
   It is the professional nature of engineers and architects to
keep the outside world out. Now suddenly they had to devise ways to
keep the wild world in. As for the scientists, they were used to
having the whole outdoors as a laboratory. Now they have to be
satisfied with a very confined indoors.
   Consider hummingbirds, great little pollinators. But a pair of
hummingbirds need the nectar of 3,200 flowers a day for energy.
Scientists had to be sure there would be that many in bloom every
day of the year.
   At the outset, no one thought what would happen to the airtight
bubble with the air heating up and expanding during the day. It
would explode the glass. So the engineers devised external,
inflatable lungs that would store the excess until it cooled for
return to the biosphere.
   With a closed water supply, engineers also had to devise
exterior tanks to cool the liquid. In short, this small world in
some cases is too small for its own good.
   Nevertheless it will be the same air and water year-round. The
oxygen is breathed in by humans and animals who breathe out carbon
dioxide which is breathed in by the plants and used in
photosynthesis which produces more oxygen.
   Biosphere II is built on a hill to take advantage of the natural
proclivity of water. A stream begins on an 85-foot mountain that
dominates the rain forest. It then flows through the plains and
grasslands of the savanna, down to the 25-foot deep ocean with its
coral reef and then to the salt and freshwater marshes, drying up
before it reaches the desert.
   The water-laden air then is drawn and climbs the mountain where
natural cooling and condensing coils bring it down as rain and dew
to feed the stream again.
   The desert required a compromise. There was no way to reduce the
humidity. So Dr. Tony Burgess of the University of Arizona
patterned the deserts after those of Baja California where the
cactus and other plants have learned to live with ocean fog.
   Perhaps the most difficult design was Dr. Walter Addey's for the
salt and freshwater marshes. He built prototypes, one in the
basement of the Smithsonian Institution where he is director of the
Marine Systems Laboratory, and another in a greenhouse of
Washington's Old Soldiers Home. The problem was the proximity of
the fresh and saltwater species. The result is a miniature Florida
Everglades.
   ``The marsh may have been one of the most fragile of the systems
because of the life that lives in the mud,'' explains Kathy Dyhr.
``But in the prototypes he found they had virtually no species
extinctions except for the mosquitoes, to which everyone raised a
cheer. But Walter said that's not so great because we need them for
the fish. So they put up signs that said don't swat the
mosquitoes.''
   In a world without chemicals, the biosphere settlers will rely
on ladybugs, lacewings, marigolds and crop rotation to control
pests. Human and animal waste and compost becomes fertilizer.
   ``The earth has its problems,'' says Carl Hodges of the
University of Arizona who designed the human habitat. ``We've got
acid rain problems, dirty air problems, and we've got carbon
dioxide increasing at an alarming rate. Right now we don't have a
research tool where we can control the global parameters, like CO2
and the quality of the atmosphere. I see the big payoff of
Biosphere II as learning how to do a better job of stewardship of
Biosphere I.''
   The rain forest and its towering mountain and stream are the
design of Dr. Ghillean Prance, director of the Kew Royal Botanical
Gardens of London in association with the New York Botanical
Garden. He patterned it after the dwindling rain forests of the
Amazon.
   Dr. Peter Warshall of the University of Arizona patterned the
savanna grasslands after those of South America, Australia and
Africa. Plants and animals from those areas create the grasslands
in Biosphere II.
   In all, some 3,800 species of plant and animal life are being
invited to the party, and as in the original Eden, snakes. Says
Dyhr, ``We may need a python in there, if we put in rodents which
help aerate the soil and carry seeds.'' There will be no large
predators, however. Not enough room. An ocelot needs two acres to
range for food. There might be some mouse deer to help eat the
grasses.
   Of almost as much interest as the individual biomes are the
ecotones or tension areas where one biome yields reluctantly to the
next. In these areas, where well-defined habitats change,
scientists hope to learn how desert encroaches on more productive
areas, what happens when fresh water turns brackish, what goes on
when climates change.
   The idea of a biosphere, a living creation of nature with its
own logic, its own rules, is not new. Probably the first to
consider Earth and its environment as a biosphere was a Soviet
scientist, V.I. Vernadsky, in 1926. The idea was further developed
by James Lovelock and Lynn Margolis, who postulated, after Darwin,
that the environment helps mediate species variation.
   In the beginning, or near it, they suggested that oxygen was
sparse and so most of the early creatures were anaerobic bacteria
that didn't need oxygen. But they gave off oxygen, and in the
process poisoned their own environment so they had to retreat into
the mud.
   Biosphere II may teach mankind enough so it does not suffer the
same fate.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, May 28</NOTE>
</DOC>

