
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900719-0204 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-19-90 1116EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>a a BC-EXP--Biosphere-Crew Adv23   07-19 0999</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-EXP--Biosphere-Crew, Adv23,1035</SECOND>
<NOTE>$Adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For release Thursday, July 23, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>How Will Eight People Fare in Enclosed World?</HEAD>
<HEAD>With BC-EXP--Biosphere, b0986</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ARTHUR H. ROTSTEIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ORACLE, Ariz. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   So, you say, what will happen when they
lock four men and four women inside this fancy fish bowl for two
years and watch 'em grow alfalfa sprouts and rice?
   How, indeed, are eight ``biospherians'' going to fare testing
the completely sealed compound with five adjacent but contrasting
environments, called biomes, as well as an intensive agricultural
complex, to duplicate the Earth's ecology?
   How are they going to react in shepherding 3,800 species of
plants and animals that will provide food and air while all wastes
are recycled within Biosphere II?
   And in getting along with each other?
   Exceedingly well, according to predictions.
   It's unlikely, all agree, that any of the eight crew members to
be selected later this year from among 14 candidates in this $30
million private experiment, will go bonkers. Withdrawal or
confrontation under stress are unlikely, all say.
   ``They're so highly motivated in the first place, I would not be
surprised to see the whole thing go through without a hitch,
personnel-wise,'' said Robert B. Bechtel, an environmental
psychologist at the University of Arizona.
   ``My guess would be that they would probably have somewhat fewer
problems than you would normally encounter in the classical
isolation experience,'' said Mary Connors, a psychologist and
division staff member at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration's Ames Research Center near Sunnyvale, Calif., who
until recently was acting chief of its Crew Research and Space
Human Factors Branch. ``They just have more options.''
   The biospherians will be physically separated from the outside
world, or Biosphere I, but they will not be isolated, said John
Rummel, a life sciences physician at NASA. Nor are they likely to
suffer sensory deprivation or claustrophobia in the main compound,
which measures 2\ acres.
   They'll have the latest gadgets, from video teleconferencing and
worldwide phone contact to television, VCRs and computers in their
plush apartment complex and office-laboratory area.
   And they will have unusual options if they want to get away from
each other. The biospherians will be able to stargaze from their
own rain forest or ocean beach.
   Experiments in long-term situations where small groups of people
live in harsh climatic or environmental extremes, such as the in
Antarctica or underwater, usually are viewed in terms of
``isolation, confinement, deprivation and risk,'' Connors said.
   But crew members will be allowed to leave through air locks if
health or extreme family emergencies necessitate, eliminating the
sense of risk, she said.
   Roy Walford, a pathologist, nutrition specialist and the only
physician seeking one of the eight slots, says he thinks the
biggest problem may be overwork.
   A community and rural health family practitioner associated with
the University of Arizona who has developed a close relationship
with the candidates will be among those watching from the outside.
   Walford and Biosphere spokeswoman Kathleen Dyhr, also hoping to
make the crew, said each candidate has worked on the project for at
least three years.
   Ms. Dyhr said the selection process uses no psychological
testing. Rather, such factors as ability to work together,
problem-solving skills, willingness to accept other views and
professionalism are keys, and ``by selecting for some of those
factors you can relieve a lot of interpersonal tensions.''
   Connors and Bechtel said the strong job focus, cross-work
training and the fact that the potential crew members have worked
and spent significant time together all are highly advantageous.
   Creativity, spontaneity, withdrawal, unexpected irritability,
eating patterns and general health will be watched, but the best
sensors likely will be the crew members themselves.
   Most say the crew will develop its own ``equilibrium'' once
closed life gets under way.
   But will that lead to romantic relationships, to interludes
under the waterfall or in the huge basements beneath the complex?
Will the crew be celibate?
   Views range from ``who cares'' to unlikely to probable.
   ``Mine has always been that it's unlikely, because I think
people tend to act as crews when they get in an experience that is
prolonged,'' Connors said.
   ``I would suspect that they would get into a familial
relationship rather than a couples relationship ... more like
siblings act,'' she said.
   Bechtel said: ``How could you avoid it? But on the other hand,
they're in a fish bowl.''
   ``Let's just put it this way,'' Ms. Dyhr said, ``there's nothing
really that a corporation can do about what their employees do
after 5 o'clock. We live in a free country and for the most part
people do whatever they want to do.''
   But what if two people fall in love? Is marriage by
teleconferencing possible?
   ``Given the fact that various members of the clergy have shown
themselves to be innovative and agreeable to doing marriages under
very unusual circumstances, I'm sure that they could find a way to
do it,'' Ms. Dyhr said.
   On the other extreme, the psychologists say literature on
confinement and isolation studies shows few examples of violence.
   The Biosphere's purpose is ``not to test interpersonal
relations,'' but to test ``whether they can reproduce the Earth's
atmosphere by a mixture of plants, animals and bacteria,'' Bechtel
said.
   Bechtel thinks the biggest problem will be whether seals around
the glass panels covering the gigantic geodesic dome stay under
wide ranges of heat and cold.
   He and Connors also said most studies of crews, including
mixed-sex groups in environments far harsher and smaller than the
biospherians are likely to encounter, have shown them to be highly
motivated, energetic and willing to put up with almost anything for
the sake of the project and the team's success.
   Bechtel said the public has a misconception that putting eight
people together will mean ``all kinds of interesting things can
happen.''
   Rather, he said, ``They're really caretakers. They're really out
there to tend the plants and animals. It's a kind of farming
adventure.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Monday, July 23</NOTE>
</DOC>

