<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-3171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Just weeks ago the prospects for the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) seemed assured. It was supported by the Republican
establishment, the prospective Democratic presidential nominee, and
much of the Democratic Congressional leadership. Now the picture is
clouded. Candidate Perot stresses that NAFTA would send jobs to
Mexico. It is too late to get congressional approval of NAFTA this
year and after the elections the makeup of the House could change,
leaving the sentiment there on trade in doubt. The
environment/farm/labor coalition now has 200 signatories in the house
to a resolution conditioning approval of NAFTA on strong environment
and food safety provisions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-5855"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

US Hispanics are deeply divided on whether to endorse NAFTA,
preventing the congressional Hispanic caucus from taking a stand on
the issue. Important Hispanic coalitions fear that Hispanics in the US
would bear the brunt of the negative impact of NAFTA and have proposed
a North American Development Bank to give financial help to regions of
the US, Mexico, and Canada most affected negatively by NAFTA. One
union representative said most Hispanics would be losers unless there
are basic changes in the proposal. On the other hand, Hispanic
business organizations are enthusiastic supporters of NAFTA and fear
that any side agreements could jeopardize the pact.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-10881"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

In the California Congressional district of Rep. Bob Matsui, a leading
congressional proponent of the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA), labor leaders, environmentalists and Perot supporters have
signed a Declaration of War against NAFTA.  Working with a shoestring
budget, the foes of NAFTA have worked for three years to win over the
American public while proponents, mainly the business community, are
spending millions to win over Congress. The opponents believe their
public efforts have turned around several congressmen.  With the
conclusion this week of talks over side agreements, both sides are
prepared to go all out in their respective lobbying efforts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-5709"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

President Clinton has chosen William Daley, younger brother of Chicago
Mayor Richard M. Daley, to head the task force assigned to get the
North American Free Trade Act (NAFTA) through Congress. Daley is a
smooth-talking behind the scenes operator with long-standing ties with
organized labor. Polls show that two-thirds of the American people do
not support NAFTA and grassroots opposition led by labor groups is
growing. Many Democrats in Congress including some from Illinois are
uncommitted and it is Daley's job to convince moderate Democrats to
back the agreement. He must marshal 73 votes from Democratic
representatives of states standing to gain the most from NAFTA.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-2760"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Pro- and anti- forces in the battle over the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) displayed their respective strengths this
week. President Clinton and former Presidents Bush, Carter and Ford
all endorsed NAFTA. Opponents interrupted a House hearing to unfurl an
anti-NAFTA banner and succeeded in getting extensive free TV
coverage. Meanwhile polls showed growing public opposition to the
trade pact with 36% of those polled opposed and 25% in favor.  A
Greenpeace release claimed that the agreement threatens two decades of
work on environmental protection, but Vice President Gore and several
established environmental leaders praised the environmental safeguards
negotiated in NAFTA's side pact.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-13350"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

With the November 17 House vote on the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) fast approaching, the Clinton administration's
campaign for the pact has shifted into high gear. The White House will
soon announce support for a North American Development Bank to fund
projects in communities hit by job losses resulting from NAFTA. This
is expected to garner at least eight votes from Hispanic
congressmen. State by state, undecided congressmen are being invited
to the White House where the "war room" counts 110 Republicans in
favor, 65-75 Democrats in favor and 20-30 leaning in favor with 218
needed for passage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-10911"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

As both sides feverishly jockey to gain the few votes needed to pass
or reject the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), strange
political alliances have been formed. With about 120 Republicans lined
up in favor, President Clinton needs at most 40% of his fellow
Democrats to pass the measure. While the administration has counted on
the "side agreements," covering Mexican environmental and labor laws
and guarding against import "surges" to win over those undecided on
the issue, these safeguards have not convinced labor and prominent
Democrats in Congress are leading the opposition while the radical
right wing supports the President.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-9116"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

The battle over the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
shifted to the Congressional districts this Veterans' Day weekend as
members sampled public opinion at home. Pro-NAFTA forces exulted over
Vice President Gore's debate victory over Ross Perot hoping it would
be decisive in the House vote next Wednesday. One poll of debate
watchers showed that support of NAFTA had shot up from 34% before the
debate to 57% after it. Meanwhile, anti-NAFTA leaders claimed 219
votes pledged against the pact (a small margin against switches) and
said the battle would be won or lost in the congressmen's home
districts.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8748"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Investors believe the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) will
be good for the US economy. The superior products and industrial
productivity rates of the US will give it the greatest economic
benefits. But rejection of NAFTA might lead to more protectionism,
higher inflation and slower world economic growth.  Anti-NAFTA forces
fear that opening up trade with Mexico will lead to a migration of
American jobs south to Mexico's lower wages. Al Gore clearly bested
Ross Perot in the debate on Tuesday apparently winning over more
Americans to NAFTA, but it is clear that the vote Wednesday in
Congress will be close.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

A rally in Richmond, Virginia on Saturday against the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) drew only 115 demonstrators and lasted
only an hour. The participants, mostly supporters of Ross Perot and
union members, said they wanted to send the message to Virginia's
three wavering congressmen that a "yes" vote on NAFTA in the House on
Wednesday would be "remembered in November." Of Virginia's 11
congressmen three have announced as anti-NAFTA, five in favor, and
three are undecided. One of the anti-NAFTA organizers complained that
President Clinton was buying off undecided congressmen with promises
of projects in their districts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1750"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Central American and Caribbean governments are anxiously awaiting a US
statement on measures to cushion the economic dislocation which they
expect to result from the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA). The countries fear that a more competitive Mexico, with free
access to the US and Canada, will capture markets which Caribbean
basin countries have developed under current trade agreements. The
region has asked for "parity" with Mexico in exporting to NAFTA
signatories. There is yet no indication of what the US administration
will propose, but an acceptance of "parity" that would amount to a de
facto extension of NAFTA is unlikely.</SUM>
