<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
The U.S. need for quality affordable child care is a growing problem
as more women work outside the home. Licensed child care is often 25%
of low-income families' income. Care by relatives has declined.

The federal government has voted additional support to day care and a
1992 IRS ruling allows home-based day-care providers to deduct costs
associated with any area of their home used for daycare regularly.

Companies have found that daycare assistance such as subsidies,
referral services and on-site centers raises employee morale and
increases productivity. Small company owners who offer benefits are
often parents with childcare needs of their own. Some large
corporations have pursued partners to jointly subsidize daycare
facilities or build centers.

Some large daycare chains provide 24 hour coverage and other services,
targeting affluent two-income families and corporations in their
marketing.

Daycare wages are the lowest of any major occupation. The French
daycare system, whose workers are as well educated and paid as
elementary school teachers, is hailed as a model for the U.S although
the child/worker ratio is double. Nannies, another daycare option, are
supplied by agencies for fees of $400-$2500. Weekly salaries range
from $150-$450 or more plus room and board and sometimes other
benefits.
</SUM>
