<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
The U.S. need for high quality affordable child care is a constant and
growing problem as more women work outside the home and half of all
new mothers return to work within a year.

Licensed child care is expensive, often 25% of income for low-income
families. Care by relatives has dropped with the rise of working
women. Also, childcare arrangements break down at a surprising
rate. Fifty percent of parents change

Government help includes a 1990 House of Representatives vote of $27
billion additional support to day care over the next five years, and a
1992 IRS ruling that home-based day-care providers, who provide a
quarter of paid childcare in the US, may deduct costs associated with
any area of their home that was used regularly for day care.

Companies have found that daycare assistance raises employee morale
and increases productivity, and employer assistance has taken the form
of subsidies, referral services, on-site centers, etc. Small company
owners who offer benefits are often parents with childcare needs of
their own. Large corporations sometimes pursue partners to jointly
subsidize daycare facilities or build centers.

Some large daycare providers like Kinder-Care Learning Centers have
chains of centers that provide 24 hour coverage and other
services. Marketing targets affluent two-income families and
corporations.

Daycare wages depend on revenue per child, number of children per
worker, and overhead, and are the lowest of any major occupation,
30-60 percent less than kindergarten or elementary school teachers,
who likely have 4 more years of schooling and are unionized. Daycare
workers are likely to be married and have 3 or more children, and work
close to home because of family responsibilities. The French daycare
system, whose workers are as well educated and paid as elementary
school teachers, is hailed as a model for the U.S although the
child/worker ratio is double.
 

Nannies, another daycare option, are supplied by 500 agencies
nationwide, for fees of $400-$2500. Most nannies are young women with
child-care experience but little formal training, recruited from towns
in the West or Midwest. Screening involves getting childcare and
character references and checking background. Weekly salaries range
from $150-$450 or more plus room and board, and sometimes health
insurance, paid vacations and holidays, and use of a car.  Problems
sometimes arise resulting from screening problems, lack of
compatibility, or disputes over agency fees. The International Nanny
Association is pushing for national standards and training
credentials.
</SUM>
