<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-3171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

Many polls reveal the public is disaffected with the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), thought safe a few weeks ago.  Leading
the opposition is Ross Perot, candidate for president, who claims the
agreement would send jobs to Mexico.  Congress cannot amend the
agreement, but a vote cannot come until next year, after the
election. Supporters of the agreement, including Bush and Clinton,
will want strong environment, labor rights, and job assistance
packages.  Opponents such as Ralph Nader's Public Citizen believe the
public are becoming aware of the costs of NAFTA and talking to their
representatives.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-5855"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Hispanics in the U.S. are divided over the North American Free Trade
Agreement among the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.  Some groups are
demanding agreements to protect worker rights and the environment, and
an administration plan to retrain displaced workers. Leader of
important Hispanic coalitions fear Hispanics in the United States will
bear the brunt of the negative impact, since recent immigrants are
dependent upon those elements of the U.S. economy most vulnerable to
Mexican imports.  They are proposing a trilateral North American
Development Bank to aid regions most affected.  Hispanic business
organizations are backing the agreement and consider it a giant
opportunity.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-10881"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Foes of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) are mobilizing
with a small budget.  Actions include a Declaration of War against
NAFTA in California, and alternative dinner menus, featuring toxic
Mexican produce, for the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative in
Washington State.  The anti-NAFTA czar, Jim Jontz, has a campaign
office, field legislative directors, and organizations in 41 states.
President Clinton has not yet named his NAFTA czar, but supporters,
mostly within the business community, are spending millions to
convince Congress to pass the agreement.  Both sides are waiting for
side agreements on labor and environment to be finalized this
week.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-5709"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

William Daley is the administration's point man on the North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) fight.  Daley, brother of the current
mayor of Chicago and son of the legendary mayor, is a smooth behind
the scene operator with ties in organized labor and Washington.  He
ran Clinton's campaign in Illinois.  Polls show 66% of Americans do
not support the agreement, which must be ratified by January 1 or
disappear.  Core democratic constituencies as well as Ross Perot
oppose NAFTA.  Ratification in Congress requires 218 votes.  Now the
administration can count on 125 republicans and 20 democrats.  Daley
will need to muster 73 more.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-2760"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Both sides of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) issues
are active, as a new Wall Street Journal poll shows 36% of Americans
opposing the agreement with only 25% supporting it.  Fifty percent do
not believe more jobs will be gained than lost, and 54% think wages
will go down.  Pro-NAFTA activities included testimony from four ex-
presidents, administration officials on speaking tours, and government
agencies passing out propaganda.  Gore has praised NAFTA's
environmental safeguards.  Except for the speaker, House democratic
leaders are silent.  Anti-NAFTA activity involves grassroots' exploits
and strategic planning with warnings that 20 years of environmental
protection work will be undermined.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-13350"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The Clinton administration soon will announce support for the North
American Development Bank, which is expected to gain the votes of at
least eight Hispanic representatives for the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA).  The administration now believes it has 200-210 of
the 218 votes needed for ratification.  Clinton is giving impassioned
speeches, inviting undecided representatives to the White House, and
sending cabinet members to congressional districts.  Anti-NAFTA forces
count 5-10 republicans against and 190-200 democrats against, with
10-15 democrats leaning against. Anti-NAFTA activities include labor
union exhibits and speeches by workers who lost their jobs to
Mexico.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-10911"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The House of Representatives' vote on the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) will be on November 16.  A simple majority of 218
votes is needed for passage.  Two factions that do not follow
conventional party lines exist. One anti- NAFTA leader characterized
the battle as the "elite" against the "populists".  The pro- faction
consists of the administration, the republican leadership, most big
business leaders, some democrats, and some prominent environmental
groups. The anti-faction includes labor, some democratic leaders
including most of the black and Hispanic caucuses,
ultra-conservatives, and Nader and Perot.  The stakes are high for
Clinton as his pro-NAFTA campaign goes into full swing.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-9116"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The battle of the North American Free Trade Agreement has moved into
the congressional districts for the holiday weekend.  Pro-NAFTA forces
claim victory for Vice-president Gore in his recent debate with Ross
Perot.  Perot is under attack from Mexico for statements he made.  One
poll has popular support rising from 34% to 57%.  Opponents believe
fear of job and investment losses will hold sway and one leader claims
219 votes against the pact. Opposition rallies, marches, and meetings
are planned.  The administration claims 192 votes and is financing a
campaign for voters to send NAFTA support telegrams to their
representatives.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8748"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Investors like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).  They
believe it will lift profits because of a more open trading
environment and that the U.S. will have the greatest growth in
exports.  They fear if it is defeated an era of protectionism will
begin, the world economic growth will slow, and there will be
inflation.  Political costs of failure will be the Clinton
administration's loss of credibility and effectiveness at home and in
any future trade negotiations.  Although the up-coming vote is too
close to call, some believe Gore's success in the debate with Perot
has swayed public opinion.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

An anti-North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) rally in Richmond,
Virginia, drew a small number on Saturday.  The rally was aimed at the
three Virginian representatives still undecided on the NAFTA vote next
week.  The ralliers "mostly union members and Perot followers" claimed
NAFTA undermines the constitution, putting decisions in the hands of
international panels.  Companies and jobs would move to Mexico.  The
Virginia business community has been lobbying for NAFTA since March.
Anti-NAFTA forces declared they only have votes to give, while Clinton
has been promising projects for the districts of the undecided
representatives.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1750"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Caribbean and Central American governments are waiting to see what
will happen to them with the North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA).  These nations would like free access to the U.S. and
Canadian markets at parity with Mexico's de facto entry into NAFTA.
This is not likely to occur, although Bill Clinton and Carlos Salinas
had assured the Caribbean basin countries that they would not be
adversely affected. The basin is a big importer of U.S. goods and
Clinton has promised it some benefits from NAFTA.  The basin leaders
fear any parity offers will come with conditions--such as workers'
rights, democracy, and environmental legislation.</SUM>
