<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881017-0235"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

Two huge boring machines are tunneling their way, one from France and
the other from England, to meet 80-130 feet under the English. When
the tunnel is completed, it will be 31 miles long, 24 of it
underwater.
 
The British are hesitant--they like their privacy. They have also
decided not to build a high speed train like the French. This will
slow things down in Britain.

The service tunnel is being built now. Construction of two train
tunnels will follow in December of 1988. The "Chunnel", between
Folkstone and Calais, will be completed in 1993.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900615-0131"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

Britain is moving ahead toward the completion of the "Chunnel" with
France. It has, however, refused to fund a high speed train (TGV) for
southern Britain. The "Chunnel", amid cost overruns, is set to open in
1993.

Britain has already funded billions for new roads, and passenger and
freight services but these are still inadequate for a TGV link. Those
against a TGV link believe the real money will be in freight haulage
by truck from London to the tunnel.

The trip from London to Paris via the Chunnel will take about three
hours. There will not be any profit from it until the end of the
century.

France is going ahead with a high-speed train (TGV) link but the
British population does not want the annoyance of a TGV.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900629-0260"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

The "Chunnel" being dug between Britain and France is the largest of
current civil engineering projects. It will, say proponents,
revolutionize Europe's economy.  It will connect Folkstone, England
with Calais, France. The three-tunnel project is half-completed but 60
percent over budget. The British public does not express enthusiasm
for the project, fearing the import of "Continental ills."

France is building a high speed train (TGV) link to connect with the
tunnel; Britain, however, is dragging its feet on this aspect. Some
British believe that the absence of a TGV will leave Britain on the
fringe of the new economic boom.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900705-0145"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

Although the British government made an agreement with the French to
build the English Channel tunnel, the British public prefers their
island status.  The "Chunnel" project, nevertheless, is moving ahead
with completion in 1993.

It is a huge construction project--the largest by far in Europe. There
will be three tunnels (two large ones for trains and a smaller service
tunnel). Twenty-seven miles of the service tunnel have been
completed. Its cost may run up to 17.5 billion dollars. It will be an
economic plus for northern Europe. The British public, however,
prefers to keep the Continentals at arm's length.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901030-0216"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

As of 30 October 1990, Britain and France have been linked via a
two-inch probe beneath the English Channel. It completes a dream by
Napolean who wanted to use such a tunnel to defeat Britain.

The goal is to enable passengers to travel between London and Paris
via rail in three hours.

The cost, with considerable overruns, is 16.7 billion dollars. The
so-called "Chunnel" links Shakespeare Cliff near Dover, to Sangatte,
near Calais, France.

The tunnel will open in 1993 and is expected to carry 28 million
passengers in the first year of operation. There will be no profit
until 2000.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901031-0024"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

British and French workmen, on 30 October 1990, completed the link-up
between Britain and France via the "Chunnel."

The Chunnel will accommodate high speed trains carrying passengers and
freight. A train trip from London to Paris will take only three hours.

The drilling effort was completed in three years.

There were nine accidental deaths during the construction phase; the
cost will total 16.7 billion dollars.

The tunnel is 31 miles in length. No profit is expected until the end
of the century.

France wants the Chunnel to improve the economy of northern France;
Britain fears the import of "Continental ills."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120290-0163"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

Amid celebrations, British and French workmen digging the "Chunnel"
between Britain and France, knocked out a passage big enough for a man
to walk through on 1 December 1990.

Tunneling took three years and connects Sangatte, France (near Calais)
and Folkstone, England. Total cost was 16.7 billion dollars. Trains
will be able to cross from Paris to London in 3 1/2 hours.

The link-up actually occurred on 29 October when a 2-inch borer made
an initial connection.

Nine workers were killed during construction.

France looks at the tunnel as an economic boon; the British fear the
import of ills from the Continent.</SUM>
 
<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-4219"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

The "Chunnel" between Britain and France will open on 6 May 1994. This
may begin a recovery of the property market in northeastern France and
Kent, England. Bargains are available.

Examples in France are: a water mill for FFr900,000; an 18th century
house for FFr450,000; and a Norman house near Dieppe with furniture
and a cottage for 125,000 pounds.

On the British side are the following: an apartment in the Grand
(Hotel) at Folkstone for 89,000 pounds; and a late 18th century house
for 190,000 pounds.

It is a good time to buy, on either side of the tunnel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT942-11114"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="E">      

The opening of the Channel tunnel later in 1994 is viewed by Belgian
authorities as an economic boon to the West Flanders and Hainaut areas
in Belgium.

Economic officials have seen the economy of Belgium deteriorate since
the 1980s. The Chunnel, with its new connections for freight and
tourists, will enhance the economy of West Flanders.

Belgium's ports, however, with the opening of the Chunnel, will suffer
some decline in sea traffic. There are already signs of increasing
economic activity in West Flanders.

Industrial and tourism zones have to be expanded to enable Belgium to
take advantage of the new activity.</SUM>
