
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900808-0232 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-08-08-90 2312EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>s f AM-NeilBush:S&amp;LPosterBoy Adv12   08-08 1269</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Neil Bush: S&amp;L Poster Boy, Adv 12,1296</SECOND>
<NOTE>$adv12</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday AMs, Aug. 12</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto</HEAD>
<HEAD>Bush's `Sensitive' Son a Lightning Rod for S&amp;L Scandal</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Also on financial news wires.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MARCY GORDON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The ``Jail Neil Bush'' posters have sprouted
around town, making their way from the bohemian side streets of
Dupont Circle to the broad avenues of the capital's downtown.
   The third son of George and Barbara Bush has become, literally,
the poster boy of the nation's savings and loan scandal, his
patrician face plastered on lamp posts in a parody of an FBI
``Wanted'' handbill. His family name, which catapulted him into the
altitudes of wealth and power in Denver five years ago, now has
thrown him into the vortex of public controversy.
   In August 1985, with scant banking experience behind him, Neil
Bush joined the board of directors of Silverado Banking, Savings
and Loan Association, a Denver thrift that went bust three years
later at a cost to taxpayers of $1 billion.
   Now Bush stands accused by thrift regulators of conflict of
interest for not disclosing business links to big Silverado
borrowers _ he denies any wrongdoing. He also could be a target of
a negligence lawsuit that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is
considering filing against him and other Silverado directors.
   Federal investigators are looking into thousands of cases of S&amp;L
fraud and mismanagement, and scores of similar lawsuits could be
filed by the FDIC. But Neil Bush's case is different. As a symbol
of the thrift crisis, he could become a political liability for his
father and the Republican Party in a $500-billion campaign issue.
   Neil Mallon Bush, born on Jan. 22, 1955, was recently described
by the president as ``probably the most sensitive of the four boys,
maybe the second-most sensitive'', ``a good kid.'' His childhood
problems with dyslexia inspired his mother's avid interest in
reading programs.
   He was 30 years old when he joined the Silverado board _ a
tender age to assume such a position of trust at a federally
insured institution. Only 1 percent of all savings and loan
directors were under 35 in 1988, according to a survey by the U.S.
League of Savings Institutions. The average age of a thrift
director was 57.
   Bush's only work in banking before becoming a Silverado director
was a summer job at Republic National Bank in Dallas. ``I worked in
the trust department filling out forms,'' he told regulators in a
closed hearing last December.
   The regulators have asserted Bush was ``unqualified and
untrained'' to be a savings and loan director _ although that
doesn't excuse him, they said.
   Flashback to the heady days of the oil industry in the American
West in the early 1980s. The Iranian oil cutoff in 1979 had spawned
skyrocketing prices and long, aggravating waits in gasoline lines
at home.
   The rugged oil fields of Colorado and Wyoming, which overnight
had become economic to develop, were gripped by a gold rush fever.
Suddenly, it seemed, everyone was in the oil business. Legions of
brash entrepreneurs swept into town, eager to take risks and get a
piece of the action.
   Neil Bush was one of them. He came to Denver armed with a
bachelor's degree and an MBA, both from Tulane University in New
Orleans, and some experience working in his father's 1980
presidential campaign and his brother George's unsuccessful bid for
Congress in Texas.
   In the summer of 1980, Bush was hired as a landman by Amoco
Production Co. in Denver, negotiating oil leases.
   ``Neil was very, very tough,'' said Tom Vessels, a Denver oilman
who negotiated lease deals with Bush. He also was ``all-round
curious,'' asking more questions than most landmen, recalled
Vessels, who owns a small oil company bearing his name and is
president of the Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain
States.
   Few others in what's now left of the Rockies oil industry seem
to remember Bush. That's not surprising, since there were scores of
small independent oilmen in the region in those days.
   ``I've never known anybody who's dealt with him in the oil
business,'' said Bill Owens, executive director of the Colorado
Petroleum Association.
   Bush left Amoco in late 1982 and set up an oil partnership with
two geologists called JNB Exploration Co. For an investment of only
$100, Bush acquired 23.4 percent of the business.
   For two years, JNB drilled a succession of dry holes in
Wyoming's Powder River Basin and failed to become profitable.
   That was common in those days. What was unusual, oilmen say, was
how Bush's ``silent'' partners kept pumping money into the business
despite its track record.
   The fact that Bush was a son of the vice president likely had
something to do with that. His silent partners in JNB _ wealthy
Denver developers Kenneth M. Good and Bill L. Walters _ probably
reckoned they might get more than oil from the millions of dollars
they invested in Bush's company.
   Influence and connections can often be as valuable as money to
people like Good and Walters, who were already heavy borrowers from
high-flying Silverado when Bush joined the board.
   Michael R. Wise, the chairman of Silverado at the time, also
knew the value of connections. He was on the board of the U.S.
League, the S&amp;L industry's main lobbying group, and had personal
contacts with regulators.
   In mid-1985, Wise invited Bush to join the board of Silverado,
which was at the zenith of its go-go period.
   Silverado was making huge loans for grandiose real estate
schemes right and left, though many of the ventures were never
finished. The thrift was a gold mine for fast-and-loose developers,
since it was playing with depositors' money that was insured by the
federal government.
   Good and Walters, two of the biggest borrowers, got a combined
$117 million in loans that they never repaid. The leading borrower,
Bell Savings and Loan Association of San Mateo, Calif., got $124.8
million. Its chairman at the time, David Butler, pleaded guilty
last year to loan fraud and was sentenced to two years in prison.
   ``Management of Silverado took excessive risks, engaged in
abusive or questionable practices to generate short-term gains and
undertook innovative manipulations to avoid recording losses,'' the
Office of Thrift Supervision said in a report published last May.
``The board did little beyond rubber stamping the activities of
(Silverado's) sophisticated, bright and manipulative management
team.''
   As a director, Bush voted to approve loans _ including some of
the projects sponsored by Good and Walters. The regulators have
accused him of conflict of interest in not disclosing to Silverado
his links with the two developers through JNB.
   Bush denies the allegations. He concedes, however, that his
family ties helped him get the Silverado position.
   ``I would be naive if I were to sit here and deny that the Bush
name didn't have something to do with it,'' he said in a recent
interview with Time magazine. ``Maybe the advantage of being part
of the vice president's family at the time was that I was accepted
more quickly in terms of age and years in this community (Denver)
than others of my peer group.''
   The family name, however, has become a double-edged sword.
Because he is the president's son, Bush has captured the public
imagination more than any other player in the national S&amp;L drama.
The unsigned ``Jail Neil Bush'' posters haven't reached Main
Street, but across the country, Neil Bush's face is now recognized
by many of the taxpayers who will have to shell out $2,000 each to
cover thrift losses.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Advance for Sunday, Aug. 12</NOTE>
</DOC>

