<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900918-0121"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

The prediction of a major earthquake along the New Madrid Fault is
causing a stir in Tennessee.  Some to plan to leave the area; there
are plans to close schools and businesses in December and others are
crowding into earthquake survival classes.  This is a result of a
prediction by Iben Browning, a scientist who predicted the Bay Area
and Mexico City quakes.

This area suffered a series of earthquakes in 1811 and 1812 estimated
to be higher than an 8 on the then non-existent Richter scale.  The
New Madrid fault is 120 miles long.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-12341"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Japan, one of the most earthquake-prone areas of the world, supports
an early- warning center, monitored constantly to report any unusual
seismic activity in the Tokai area.  Elaborate plans have been made to
evacuate danger areas, reroute traffic and close schools and
businesses if experts feel a quake is imminent.

Although most other countries have given up trying to predict quakes,
Japan continues to spend 2.5 million dollars yearly to support this
effort, which covers only a limited area.

The source of the danger is the Suruga Trough, a deep off-shore trench
which forms a boundary between two tectonic plates.  It last ruptured
in 1854, and evidence is that significant strain has accumulated since
the last big earthquake.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891017-0204"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

The earthquake in the Bay area on Tuesday had been targeted as likely
to have one by the U.S. Geological Survey in 1998.  The prediction was
based on time elapse since the 1906 San Francisco quake, among other
factors.

The quake registered 6.9 on the Richter scale and was centered in the
Santa Cruz, California, area.  Reports indicated widespread damage,
especially on highways and old masonry buildings.  A quake of 7 on the
Richter scale can cause major heavy damage.

Some Southern California areas have an even higher probability of a
major quake, the highest being Bakersfield in central California with
a 90% probability.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110589-0082"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

In terms of magnitude, Chile is the world's most seismic country.  It
has a coastline of 2,270 miles along the "ring of fire," between the
Nacza and South American plates.  A 1985, 7.1 Richter Scale earthquake
was comparable to the San Francisco quake.  But a 1960 quake of 9.5
destroyed Valparaiso.  Parts of the coast dropped nine feet and 5,000
people were killed. A tsunami followed, killing others.

Chilean engineers design their buildings of reinforced concrete.  They
do not rock during earthquakes, and since these codes were adopted in
1930, only three engineered buildings have collapsed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890228-0019"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Last year's Armenian earthquake, with 25,000 killed, (13,000 injured
and half a million homeless) brought the earth's yearly death total to
its highest since 1976, when 10 times many died in a Chinese
earthquake.  2,000 more died in other quakes last year.

The geological survey reported 61 significant quakes last year,
including sites on the Nepal-Burma border, the Nepal-India border and
the Burma-China border.  The United States recorded three significant
quakes, in the Gulf of Alaska, Whittier and Pasadena, California.
Canada had one; Europe, Africa and Japan also recorded relatively
minor quakes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891028-0022"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

The Solomon Islands experienced an earthquake at 8:05 p.m. today,
measuring 7.2 on the Richter scale.  There were no immediate reports
of injury or damage, not surprising since the area is sparsely
populated and minimally developed.  No tsunami was reported.  This was
the strongest quake reported in the world in the last five months; the
epicenter was placed on Guadacanal Island.

The Richter scale measures ground motion as recorded on seismographs.
Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude.
That means a reading of 7.5 shows an earthquake ten times stronger
than a quake of 6.5.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901203-0166"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Climatologist Ira Browning said there was a 50-50 chance of a major
earthquake today along the New Madrid Fault, which stretches from
Arkansas northeast through New Madrid, Missouri and into Cairo,
Illinois.  No tremors were reported.

Some residents took precautions, however: some schools closed, some
residents left town and some purchased earthquake emergency kits.

The U.S. Geological Survey, which received many calls from area
residents, did not back the prediction. Waverly Person of the Survey
says, "Although earthquakes can be tracked historically, forecasting
them is difficult, if not impossible.  Mr. Browning's prediction was
based on a study of tidal forces.</SUM>
