<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911212-0080"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Robert Goldwin, a scholar in Constitutional studies at the American
Enterprise Institute doesn't see the Second Amendment as a barrier to
gun control.  Reviewing the debates over the wording of that amendment
in the First Congress, he finds that much of their concern, especially
that of James Madison, was to limit the power of Congress to establish
a standing army and, instead rely on state militias.  One version that
was argued considered the "bearing of arms" as synonymous with "to
render military service" and another would require "every free
able-bodied white male citizen" to enroll in the militia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920211-0036"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

Richard Goldwin assesses many of the letters he received in response
to his earlier Wall Street Journal column on gun control as
misinterpreting his article and the Second Amendment, and accusing him
of calling for the removal of all guns through regulation, which he
denies.  Goldwin maintains, as does one of his correspondents, that
regulation of gun ownership and use does not violate the constitution.
All letters, Goldwin states, missed his point that gun owners be
required to sign up (not join) with the National Guard.  His main
point was to show how far Congress can go in gun control legislation
without exceeding its Constitutional powers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021090-0005"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

Columnist Michael Kinsley notes a recent poll that shows even a
majority of gun owners favor a waiting period for handgun purchases
and the registration of semi-automatic weapons and handguns.  He also
cites an article by Don Kates on the Second Amendment which expounds
on the "militia" and the "right of the people".  At the time of the
Bill of Rights, all able-bodied men were considered part of the
militia.  Today, an individual's weapons should be light enough to
carry ("bear").  He sees no Constitutional restrictions to mandatory
registration or laws against concealed weapons in public.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920114-0145"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

Several correspondents disagreed with Richard Goldwin's article on gun
control.  One writer from the CATO Institute argues that Goldwin erred
in confusing actual service in a militia as a necessary condition to
bear arms.  Another, that the militia is not the National Guard so
Goldwin's contention that arms bearers should join the Guard would not
apply to gun ownership.  Still another sees private gun ownership as
"our only sure defense".  One writer believes that Goldwin's agenda is
to remove all guns from American citizens through total regulations.
But, not all of these writers are against "sensible" gun
control.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910208-0130"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

An Op-Ed item by Michael Gartner drew fire from three readers but some
support from another who identified himself as a life member of the
NRA.  One of those at odds with Gartner says the issue is crime
control and not gun control; that criminals don't care about
gun-control laws.  Another reader accuses Gartner of wanting to
eliminate handguns from our society.  One reader from California
believes the "individual right to keep and bear arms is our ultimate
defense against tyranny".  The one supporting position believes that
it is not too much to ask for a seven day "cooling-off" period as in
the Brady Bill.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA100789-0007"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

A letter to the LA Times begins by asserting it is not an argument
regarding the merits of gun control laws.  The Second Amendment, as
with the total bill of Rights, was insisted on by some of the states
as protection from the federal government.  Subsequent court cases
have been consistent with the view that the Second Amendment did not
create a federally protected right of individuals but was a limitation
on the national government.  There is no national document controlling
the states with regard to arms.  The states may regulate arms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-5781"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

After seven years of trying, the US Congress has passed the Brady
Bill.  Its opponents in Congress had argued that the bill will
inconvenience only law-abiding citizens and not criminals.  They also
see the federal government's poor policing of licensed gun dealers as
a sign that Brady will be ineffective.  Supporters of Brady concede
that it will only make a small dent in the numbers of gun sales.  The
National Rifle Association led opposition to the bill and has gained
membership but they have also been put on the defensive by opponents.
Left-wing Democrats have begun to champion gun control as a supplement
to tough anti-crime measures.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911121-0136"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

Roy Innis of CORE finds it ironic that most black leaders support gun
control.  He traces America's gun control movement from the Dred Scott
court decision of 1857.  Chief Justice Taney warned that if blacks
were entitled to the privileges and immunities of citizens, they could
keep and bear arms.  Racial paranoia about black men with guns then
intensified.  The 14th and 15th Amendments prevented laws that were
explicitly racist.  Innis notes that of the handgun permits issued in
New York City, only 2% are issued to blacks many of whom live or work
in high-crime areas and have need for protection.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890722-0081"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

A 1987 Maine state constitutional amendment made that states right to
keep and bear arms the most broad and least restrictive of any of the
43 similar state amendments.  So broad, in fact, that even convicted
felons may own guns.  A Maine judge dismissed a gun charge against a
felon who was also charged with other crimes.  Maine's amendment
reads: "Every citizen has a right to keep and bear arms, and this
right shall never be questioned".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA073089-0118"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="F">        

Stung by some recent reversals, the National Rifle Association is
increasing its efforts to protest semi-automatic gun control bills.
President Bush, a life member of the NRA, angered the organization by
imposing a ban on the import of assault rifles.  The organization
feels that Arizona Senator DeConcini is a traitor to the NRA's cause
and was unhappy with a statement by Barry Goldwater that
semiautomatics "have no place in anybody's arsenal".  NRA lobbyists
are now facing heavy lobbying efforts from the other side.  The
organization has compromised on banning cop-killer bullets but plans
to increase its spending on lobbying efforts.</SUM>
