<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA111690-0059 WSJ911227-0037 AP891005-0216 AP900514-0011 LA102189-0067
SJMN91-06130055 AP890509-0228 WSJ920302-0142 WSJ911224-0095"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
   
Antarctica is larger than China and India combined.  Ninety-eight
percent of the continent is under ice.  It is drier than the Sahara
desert.

Antarctica has been important on three fronts--geopolitical, future
economic development and scientific research.  In 1959 an
international treaty placed a hold on the territorial claims of seven
nations, placed Antarctica off-limits for military bases and opened it
for scientific research to all.  Currently sixteen nations oversee
sixty-eight research bases there.  In 1991 a revised Antarctic Treaty
prohibited mining and commercial development there for 50 years.
Antarctica is believed to hold unknown quantities of strategic metals
and billions of gallons of oil.  The United States and Great Britain
grudgingly accepted the pact changes.  Many research scientists and
Antarctic administrators believe that without the possibility of
economic payback, funding for Antarctica's very expensive research may
not continue at current levels.

Environmentalists worldwide call on the U.S to place stricter controls
on the scientists there and, because most tourists and tour ships are
American, on the number and activities of the rapidly increasing
tourist traffic.  Our government believes current standards are
satisfactory.

Antarctica is the earth's last frontier.  If it is despoiled, no other
world laboratory remains.  </SUM>
