<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="LA111690-0059 WSJ911227-0037 AP891005-0216 AP900514-0011 LA102189-0067
SJMN91-06130055 AP890509-0228 WSJ920302-0142 WSJ911224-0095"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
    
Antarctica is roughly the shape of a bottle cap.  It rises sharply at
the perimeter, and then flattens out in a vast, high plateau at an
average elevation of 9,500 feet.  Antarctica's 5.4 million square
miles is more than China and India combined.  It has no indigenous
people and wildlife is confined to the coast.  Ninety-eight percent of
the continent is covered with ice.  It is the coldest place on earth
and drier than the Sahara desert.

In modern history, Antarctica has been important on three
fronts--geopolitical, future economic development and scientific
research.  Prior to 1959, seven nations had made land claims for
pieces of the continent.  None holds title.  In 1959 an international
treaty, subsequently signed by 39 nations, in addition to placing a
hold on all territorial claims, placed Antarctica off-limits for
military bases and opened it to all for scientific research.
Currently sixteen nations oversee sixty-eight research bases on the
continent.  The National Science Foundation runs the U.S research
bases there.  In 1991 the Antarctic Treaty was updated.  The revised
treaty placed the continent off-limits to mining and commercial
development for 50 years.  Antarctica is believed to hold unknown
quantities of strategic and precious metals and billions of gallons of
oil reserves.  The United States and Great Britain grudgingly accepted
the pact changes.  Although environmentalists world-wide were
thrilled, many research scientists and Antarctic administrators
believe that without the possibility of economic payback, funding for
the very expensive research conducted there may not continue at
current levels.  For example, in 1991, Antarctica was America's
costliest research site outside of outer space.  Of the $193 million
the U.S.  planned to spend, only $22 million was budgeted for
research.  The rest was earmarked for planes, ships and helicopters to
ferry researchers, other logistics and for environmental cleanup.
Nevertheless, much serious research occurs.

Environmentalists worldwide are determined to keep Antarctica as
pristine and undisturbed as possible.  They seek to place stricter
controls on the scientists there and on the number and activities of
the rapidly increasing tourist traffic.  Because the majority of
tourists are American, environmentalists call on the U.S. to develop
and implement the tighter standards.  Our government believes current
standards are satisfactory.

Antarctica is the earth's last frontier.  And as with early frontiers,
adventurers are drawn there to pit their will and stamina against the
challenges of raw and sometimes terrifying nature.  If it is
despoiled, no other "world laboratory" remains.  </SUM>
