<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890509-0228"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
     
Messrs. Steger, American and Etienne, French enlisted four others from
the U.S.S.R, China, Japan and Great Britain for an unmechanized, 4000
mile, seven month attempt to cross Antarctica.  Planning to travel
thirty miles per day on cross-country skies with dogsleds, they wish
to draw international attention to threats against nature and the need
for cooperation in protecting Antarctica.  An international treaty
initiated in 1959 halted all territorial claims, banned military
activity there and established freedom of scientific inquiry.  But
many countries now covet the land for strategic, political and
economic reasons.  About 45 nations have signed television contracts
with the expedition.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891005-0216"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
 
Thirty-nine nations are meeting in Paris to determine the fate of
Antarctica.  They will review the 1959 Antarctica treaty that expires
in 1991, but more importantly, the 1988 Antarctica Minerals Convention
that would have allowed controlled mining and oil exploration there.
The Convention was not ratified by Australia, one of seven claimant
nations with veto power.  None holds title; sixteen nations fly flags
there.

Antarctica hoards unknown quantities of strategic metals along with
oil estimated to be in the billions of gallons.  Many nations are
pressing for controlled exploitation of the continent, others argue
for it to remain unspoiled.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102189-0067"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
       
At the Paris meeting of the 39 Antarctica Treaty nations, Australia
and France proposed that Antarctica be turned into a wilderness park
and that the Minerals Convention of 1988, which took six years to
negotiate be scrapped.  Britain and the United States refused to
discuss this proposal and insisted upon implementing the convention,
which creates a framework for mining under strict environmental
guidelines, by discussing clauses that would apportion liability in
the case of mining pollution.  Both side refused to compromise by
would not destroy the 30 year old Antarctic Treaty by walking out.
Another two meetings will be held in Chile next year.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900514-0011"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
       
"The number of tourist visiting Antarctica has more than tripled in
the past five years," said Bruce Manheim, a Washington activist with
the Environmental Defense Fund who calls existing controls to protect
Antarctic wildlife inadequate.  Manheim's appeal seeks strict controls
on helicopter flights near wildlife sites, guidelines on tourist
observation of wildlife, and coordination of cruise ship visits to
breeding grounds.  Because most tourists to Antarctica are Americans,
conservations believe the U.S. should take the lead in adopting a
model regulatory policy.  The U.S. government responds that effective
regulations are already in place.  The National Science Foundation
regulates U.S.  activities in Antarctica.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA111690-0059"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

A coalition of environmental groups is calling on participants to a
Chilean conference on Antarctica to designate the continent as a world
science park.  The environmentalists claim that Antarctica is being
marred by air pollution, tourist ships, threatened by mining and
damaged by more than 76 scientific projects now underway on the
continent.  Tucker Scully, lead U.S. negotiator for Antarctic issues,
disagreed with the hands-off approach to the continent, calling it
sticking one's head in the sand.  There is speculation that the
Interior Department may urge President Bush to veto pending
congressional legislation calling for the preservation of Antarctica
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06130055"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

In Madrid, Spain, 39 nations reached a tentative compromise on
updating the Antarctica Treaty by calling for a 50-year moratorium on
mining and mineral exploration.  While other nations pushed for a
permanent ban on commercial exploitation, U.S. and British delegates
held out for a short moratorium.  When the moratorium expires it may
be lifted only with approval of two-thirds of the signatories.  This
agreement continues the 30-year Antarctic Treaty tradition of
preserving Antarctica for scientific research and keeping it
off-limits to military bases, commercial development and mining, which
may prove more beneficial than digging up and selling off its
resources.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911224-0095"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   
 
A pioneer in cryobiology--the study of extremely low temperatures on
living things, learned in Antarctica that certain fish produce an
antifreeze molecule that lowers their freezing point enough to survive
Antarctic waters.  Glaciologists are testing to see whether the ice
sheet there is beginning to collapse.  If so, they warn, a world
cataclysmic cycle may be underway.  And last, because Antarctica is
one of the driest places on earth, thus enabling some telescopes to
better see cosmic radiation, this is one of the best places on earth
to study that key to one of the central paradoxes of cosmology.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911227-0037"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

With the recently adopted 50-year ban on mining and oil drilling in
Antarctica, environmentalists are rejoicing.  However, some think the
pact could backfire.  Without the possibility of some return, many
nations may conclude that Antarctic research isn't worth it.  The
U.S. National Science Foundation says, "We've been living on a tripod
--- geopolitics, future uses of Antarctica and research, now two of
the three legs have been taken away from us."  Although proof of a
nation's interest in Antarctica was their research effort there, many
nations, particularly Soviet Bloc, already find the research cost to
be prohibitive and are cutting back.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920302-0142"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

The seven-months Trans-Antarctica Expedition in 1989-1990 of Mr. Will
Steger by ski and dogsled with five others is documented in his book
"Crossing Antarctica" (Knopf, 104 pages, #25).  Crossing by the
longest possible route, it tells of the pride, resilience,
determination and diverse skills and personalities of the men
involved.  A Chinese, Japanese, Frenchman and Brit accompanied Steger,
an American.  The hardships they encountered were tremendous, but
familiar polar fare.  As polar literature, however, it does not reach
the technical fascination or tragic drama of the published accounts of
Amundsen's and Scott's adventures.  The photographs also are good, but
not breathtaking.  </SUM>
