<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881126-0007"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">     

Further study of a newly isolated hormone found in the pancreases of
diabetics may lead to new treatments for the most common form of the
disease. Garth Cooper, a New Zealand biochemist who has been working
with scientists at Oxford University, said the hormone, amylin, is
normally undetectable but is found in high levels in the pancreases of
diabetics. Amylin appears to be responsible for the obesity, reduced
insulin secretion and the reduced effectiveness of insulin observed in
Type II diabetes. Type II diabetes afflicts the majority of America's
11 million diabetics. Researchers hope to develop substances that
block amylin's secretion or action.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890313-0198"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Since Hispanics are three times as prone to diabetes as the general US
population, researchers in Texas have conducted family studies, hoping
to identify the gene that triggers the disease. Upper-income Mexican
Americans have a lower risk of the disease than those of lower-income,
suggesting that although the gene may be there, diet and life style
affect the chance of acquiring the disease.  Accordingly, the
researchers encourage programs to educate school-age children about
the importance of healthy diets and exercise. Researchers are also
working on an anti-diabetic drug called metaforim that improves the
body's ability to respond to insulin.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890314-0237"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Of the twelve million Americans with diabetes it is most prevalent
among Native Americans, blacks, and Hispanics. Hispanics are three
times more likely to develop diabetes than the general population. San
Antonio, with a population that is 50% Hispanic is becoming the base
for diabetes studies. Researchers there believe that family studies
are bringing them close to finding the gene that triggers the disease
and that a natural susceptibility to diabetes is aggravated by
Hispanics' diets of cheap, processed foods, lack of exercise and
infrequent medical attention. Educating elementary-school-age children
about healthy diets would help reduce the number of diabetes
cases.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101289-0194"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

One in eight Latino adults is afflicted by diabetes. It is thought
that genetically controlled defects in the body's insulin system cause
a basic susceptibility, but Latino diets rich in high-calorie fried
foods that promote obesity increase the chance of getting
diabetes. Doctors say that the diabetes most common among Latinos can
be largely prevented with proper diet and exercise. The number of
Latino diabetics in the U.S. will reach 8 million by the year 2000 at
a cost of more than $10 billion a year according to projections by Eli
Lilly Co. New educational efforts are necessary. Prevention is the
best policy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06136305"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

This summer health professionals in the San Jose area will offer
nutrition and exercise classes targeting Hispanics in an effort to
educate them in the dangers of diabetes. The incidence of diabetes
among Hispanics is three times that of the general population, a fact
thought to be due to a genetic predisposition aggravated by the
Hispanic diet. The instruction offered this summer concentrates on the
preparation of traditional Hispanic dishes using polyunsaturated oil
rather than recipes that call for lard. Although courses for Hispanic
diabetics have been offered before by the Diabetic Society, they have
not been geared specifically toward the Hispanic lifestyle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06212161"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Saturday Hispanics can attend a free half-day clinic to learn how to
manage diabetes. Heredity and diet appear to be the reason that 14% to
21% of Hispanics -- and up to 40% in the 64-75 age group -- contract
diabetes. The clinic will focus on diet, exercise and medication with
particular emphasis on cooking with unsaturated fats. The high-fat
diet of many Hispanics leads to obesity which seems to trigger
diabetes. The hospital and the diabetes society are sponsoring the
clinic which will be taught by bilingual instructors.  Previous
programs dating back to 1984 were not reaching the monolingual
Spanish-speaker.</SUM>
