<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-67721"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

Latvia experienced an increase of 14% in tuberculosis morbidity and
44% in mortality in 1993 as compared to 1992.

Inta Pavlovska, of the State Tuberculosis and Lung Disease Center,
said the increase may be related to poor socioeconomic conditions and
the fact that no laws require mandatory treatment of infectious cases.

In November of last year a proposal was submitted to the Cabinet of
Ministers to require mandatory treatment of such cases.  To date the
proposal has not been reviewed.

Presently Latvia has 11 state tuberculosis hospitals; the latest
opened in January of this year, treating mainly chronic alcoholics
suffering from tuberculosis.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101690-0040"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

The World Health Organization reports that tuberculosis has become the
world's deadliest disease, killing nearly three million people yearly;
and that deaths could increase if controls are not initiated quickly.
  
WHO attributes the increase to the growing AIDS epidemic and says that
three million people have both TB and AIDS.

They estimate that by 2000, 15-20 million adults will have HIV and
that TB cases and deaths will rise sharply, especially in the Third
World.

TB is an infectious disease of the lungs.  Many persons carry the TB
organism but are not infectious to others unless the immune system is
impaired, as in HIV.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900217-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Drugs now available can put AIDS patients into remission and a vaccine
to protect against the disease is possible, according to a panel of
AIDS experts at the American Association of the Advancement of
Science.

Developing countries may not benefit from new drugs, however, because
they are expensive, difficult to administer and require monitoring,
making the vaccine more important.

The Allergy Institute also reports an epidemic of TB in AIDS patients
in inner cities.  The disease is now increasing after a long decline,
and unlike AIDS, is easily transmitted through the air.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890302-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Drug abusers infected with the AIDS virus should be treated to prevent
TB according to the New England Journal of Medicine.  TB has increased
among people at high risk of AIDS.

The study shows that the TB comes from a lingering infection in a
person whose immune system is weakened by HIV.

People can carry either AIDS or TB for years; most with HIV go on to
develop the syndrome, while only about 10% of TB carriers develop the
disease.  Those with AIDS are more likely to develop TB and infect
others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0002"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Incidence of active TB rose 38% in New York in 1990 according to the
Health Commissioner, Dr. Woodrow Myers.
  
The city is responding with tuberculosis clinics and increased funding
for prevention and intervention, including TB testing for homeless,
housing for those found positive, increased preventive measures for
drug abusers and testing for children entering school.

They estimate one million New Yorkers may be infected by the TB germ;
but it is inactive in 99%.  Those at high risk are those whose
capacity to resist infection is impaired, such as those with HIV,
substance abusers, cancer or poor nutrition.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900521-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

TB, until recently declining, has made a comeback.  Health officials
are alarmed by a 35% increase last year in Newark, New Jersey.
Nationwide a five percent increase is attributed to the AIDS virus,
which destroys the body's immune system.

International health officials meeting in Boston last week, alarmed by
the increase in the United States and the epidemic in Africa, urged
doctors and clinics to screen for and treat tuberculosis, especially
in AIDS patients.

Although 10 to 15 million Americans have contracted the TB bacterium,
few will develop the disease; however, a person with a compromised
immune system, such as with AIDS, cancer or poor nutrition may develop
tuberculosis.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900316-0028"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Federal health researchers find that TB's decline has almost stopped
due to its threat to the AIDS-infected.
 
In 1988, 22,436 TB cases were reported, down 0.4% from 1987.  From
1981-84 a 6.7% drop occurred.

The Center for Disease Control attributes the change to the increase
of TB among HIV infected persons who have AIDS making them susceptible
to illness, including TB.

The TB increase was higher among blacks and Hispanics; both groups
have higher rates of AIDS.

The CDC estimates 10 million Americans are infected with TB, but most
will not fall ill.  115,000 were in treatment in 1987, while 1,753
died of TB.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890511-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

The tuberculosis rate in American prisons is three times higher than
on the outside according to the Center for Disease Control, who urge
testing, isolation and other measures there.

Large correctional systems in New York, New Jersey and California
report even higher increases in the mid-eighties.  Overcrowding in
prisons puts inmates, staff and visitors at high risk for the airborne
infection.

The CDC recommends testing for new inmates and staff and annually
thereafter, and isolation for confirmed symptomatic cases.

Spread of the AIDS virus may play a role in the TB increase in
prisons.  AIDS weakens the immune system.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06276078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

Poor ventilation in modern office buildings is causing spread of flu
and other airborne infections including measles and tuberculosis,
according to public health experts.  One office building reported an
outbreak of TB among 40% of workers, traced to one sick employee.

Many modern buildings are sealed to conserve energy, recirculating
indoor air.  Airborne infections may be carried throughout buildings,
infecting workers far from the source.

The amount of outdoor air in such buildings needs to be increased.

Airplanes, waiting rooms, homeless shelters, prisons and hospitals are
likely sites for spreading infections.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900215-0031"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

According to a study in the NE Journal of Medicine, blacks contract TB
six times more often than whites when living conditions are identical,
based on a study of residents of Arkansas nursing homes.  Disease-free
patients at admission were re-tested after two months: twice as many
blacks as whites had contracted tuberculosis.

Prison data also shows a similar trend.

Scientists theorize that blacks originate from Africa, where TB is
rare, while European whites have been exposed for generations.  They
point out that blacks have a similar resistance to malaria, common in
sub-Saharan Africa.</SUM>
