<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP880703-0073 AP890901-0154 LA031189-0043 AP880714-0187 AP890702-0030
AP880729-0058 AP881007-0011 LA052889-0178 AP880728-0192 AP890527-0001"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">    

An Iranian Air Airbus was shot down on July 3, 1988 on a scheduled
flight from Bandar Abbas in Iran to Dubai in the Southern United Arab
Emirates. All 290 aboard the plane were killed. The two missiles that
destroyed the aircraft were fired from the USS Vincennes, an Aegis
class cruiser equipped with highly sophisticated radar. The Navy was
forced to admit that a painful case of mistaken target identification
had been made aboard the Vincennes. The Iranian Foreign Minister
immediately spoke to the Security Council of the United Nations, and
denounced the Navy's explanation, saying that the tragedy was caused
by the unprovoked aggression of the United States Navy.

An investigation team, made up of experts and led by an admiral, went
to the Persian Gulf two days after the incident. They stayed three
weeks, taking testimony from officers of the Vincennes and two other
warships in the area. They also examined computer data.  No report was
issued at the time. A team from a United Nation group also
investigated.
                              
In October the House Armed Forces Policy Subcommittee heard testimony
from psychologists who said that the mistakes made aboard the
Vincennes might have resulted from battle-related stress.

There were other developments in 1989 that had connections to the
Vincennes and the destruction of the Iranian airliner. In March the
wife of the captain who commanded the Vincennes when the shootdown
occurred narrowly escaped injury when her van was destroyed by a pipe
bomb. The Rogerses were then given the protection by the Naval
Investigative Service. In May Captain Rogers was reassigned from the
Vincennes, and awarded the Legion of Merit at the same time. The Navy
also announced that 15 members of the Vincennes crew would be
disciplined for drug abuse. This was a non- issue because none of the
15 was in decision-making position. It was also in May that the
Vincennes was sent to Long Beach Naval Shipyard so deficiencies in the
Aegis system could be corrected.

In June 1989 a suit was filed in United States District Court on
behalf of the families of 83 of those killed in the shootdown,
charging General Electric and others who designed and manufactured the
Aegis system.

Commander David R. Carlson commanded a ship in the vicinity of the
Vincennes in July 1988.  He wrote an article that was harshly critical
of the aggressive actions of the Vincennes before and during the
shootdown. </SUM>
