<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880703-0073"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The Iranian Republic News Agency announced that an Iranian Air Airbus
flying a scheduled flight from Bandar Abbas to Dubai had been shot
down, and all 290 on board were presumed dead.  The commercial
airliner was destroyed by missiles fired from the USS Vincennes
Aegis-type cruiser.  The Vincennes is the fourth vessel to carry the
name of the city of Indiana.  The Vincennes Organization is made up of
sailors who had served on earlier ships of that name. Members of the
organization, speaking out only a day after the shootdown, voiced
strong support for the crew of the Vincennes.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880714-0187"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali-Akbar Velayati, spoke to the
Security Council of the United Nations and gave the Iranian version of
the shooting down of an Iranian commercial Airbus.  He said that all
available evidence shows that the disaster could not have been caused
by a mistake by the crew of the Vincennes.  The huge difference
between the configuration of an airbus and a fighter renders absurd
any claim of mistaken identity.  He belittled such explanations by the
United States, and said that it was evident the warship took an
aggressive course and caused the massacre of 200 innocent people.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880728-0192"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
     
A team of experts, led by Admiral Fogarty, left the Persian Gulf after
a three-week investigation into the action of the USS Vincennes in
shooting down an Iranian airliner.  The team took sworn testimony from
the Vincennes and two other warships in the area, and complied data
from the computer tapes on the three vessels.  Navy officials provided
no details on the report and said that it might not be released until
mid-August.  Another team, this from the International Civil Air
Organization, is expected to arrive in Teheran on Friday to pursue its
own investigation of the incident.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880729-0058"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  
  
A team of International Civil Air Organization experts arrived in
Teheran today, and is expected to remain in Iran for a week.  The ICAO
is a specialized branch of the United Nations and is based in
Montreal.  They are in Iran at the request of the Iranian government.
The team will start its probe in Teheran and then will go on to other
sites critical to the investigation.  The United States delegate to
the United Nations said that his country would help the investigation
in any way it could, but did not know if the team would be allowed to
go aboard the Vincennes.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881007-0011"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The House Armed Services Policy Subcommittee heard testimony relating
to the destruction of an Iranian commercial airliner by missiles fired
from the USS Vincennes.  The Navy had earlier said that mistakes had
been made aboard the Vincennes in reading and interpreting data. In
testimony before the subcommittee, psychologists said that such
mistakes could be attributed to battle-related stress, and that the
military should put more emphasis on understanding stress.  One
professor added that when military people are at a high stage of
alert, as were the crew of the Vincennes, they are apt to interpret
data to fit what they expect to happen.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA031189-0043"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
   
Sharon Rogers, wife of captain Will Rogers III, escaped injury Friday
morning when a pipe bomb exploded under her van moments after she left
the van. The vehicle was destroyed. Mrs. Rogers was dazed but was able
to walk away. Captain Rogers is still the skipper of the guided
missile cruiser Vincennes that is now at San Diego following its
return from the Persian Gulf. In July 1988 missiles fired from the
Vincennes destroyed an Iranian airliner, killing 290.  The FBI said
the bomb was amateurish and shoddy, but did not rule out a connection
to a terrorist group.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890527-0001"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The Navy is preparing to discipline 15 members of the crew of the USS
Vincennes on drug abuse charges. None of the 15 was in a position to
influence the decision of Captain Rogers when he ordered the shootdown
of an Iranian airliner in July 1988. The Navy also announced that the
Vincennes would be sent to the Long Beach Naval Shipyard so
deficiencies in the Aegis Electronic Combat Control System could be
corrected. The Aegis was designed to make computer driven decisions
for an entire fleet, but its performance in the Persian Gulf did not
meet expectations.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA052889-0178"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   
 
Captain Will C. Rogers was awarded the Legion of Merit as he gave up
command of the Vincennes in a ceremony aboard the ship. Rogers has
been reassigned to shore duty at Point Loma Tactical Development and
Training Group. Unusually tight security restrictions were in force
for the ceremony. The Rogerses have been under the constant protection
of the Naval Service Investigative Service since March when a
suspected terrorist bomb destroyed her van. The letter that
accompanied the award made no mention of the action in July 1988 when
Rogers ordered the shootdown of an Iranian civil airliner.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890702-0030"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
 
A suit was filed in the United States Court in San Francisco on June
28 on behalf of 83 of the 290 killed when missiles fired from the USS
Vincennes shot down an Iranian airliner. The suit charges General
Electric and other entities that designed and manufactured the Aegis
system aboard the Vincennes. A spokesman also said that claims would
be filed against the government of the United States. Iran has been
asking for a World Court verdict against the United States, demanding
compensation in an unspecified amount to be paid to families of the
victims.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890901-0154"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

Commander David R. Carlson authored an article in the current edition
of the United States Naval Institute Proceedings in which he was
harshly critical of the aggressive behavior of the USS Vincennes in
the Persian Gulf, and especially for the unwarranted shooting down of
an Iranian airliner. Carlson was the skipper of the USS Sides, a
frigate that was present in area when the shootdown occurred. A Navy
spokesperson said that the Naval Institute is not a part of the
Navy. Captain Rogers, who commanded the Vincennes t the time, said
Carlson's views were his own and not the Navy's.  </SUM>
