<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="FBIS3-23360 FBIS3-11919 AP880510-0178 FBIS4-27602 SJMN91-06143070
AP900428-0108 FT944-18184 AP900428-0005 AP901013-0046 AP890704-0043"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A">    

Assassinations covered in selected news reports 1988-1994 seemed to
fall into three categories: those motivated by internal political
rivalries; those committed by inimical ethnic or religious forces; and
those connected with drug trafficking. The first category was best
represented by numerous assassinations carried out in the Philippines
by the New People's Army, a rebel group attempting to overthrow the
Philippine government. The victims appeared to be any soldier or
policeman who presented himself as a target of opportunity. The 1979
assassination of the President of South Korea by another contender for
power also belongs in the internal political grouping. The second
category covers a series of assassinations involving the conflict
between Jewish Israel and its Moslem enemies and the struggle between
the different factions of Islam.  The assassinations in India of
Indira Gandhi by Sikh militants and of Rajiv Gandhi by Tamil
separatists also belong in this second class. The third category is
filled with slayings of prominent political figures in Colombia and
Mexico who threatened in one way or another to alter the status quo
and thus presented a challenge to the livelihood of powerful drug
cartels.</SUM>
