<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880510-0178"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A">     

Yasser Arafat Tuesday accused the United States of threatening to kill
PLO officials if Palestinian guerillas attack American
targets. Denying the accusation, the State Department explained that
it had received reports that the PLO might target Americans because of
alleged U.S. involvement in the assassination of Khalil Wazir (code
name Abu Jihad), the PLO's second in command. (Wazir was killed April
16 during a raid on his house near Tunis, Tunisia.) Arafat took
U.S. denial of any involvement in the assassination and warning that
the PLO would be held accountable for any action against U.S.
personnel to be a threat to assassinate PLO leaders.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890704-0043"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Col. Herminio Taylo, 54, police chief of Makati, Philippines was
assassinated today. The assassins identified themselves as members of
the New People's Army, the same group that claimed responsibility for
the April 21 assassination of Col. Rowe of the Joint U.S. Military
Assistance Group. Taylo was the tenth soldier or policeman slain in
the Manilla area in the last two weeks. President Corazon Aquino,
whose husband Benigno was assassinated in 1983, expressed her sympathy
for the family of Col. Taylo. National Security Adviser Rafael Ileto
said the killing showed that every soldier and policeman was a
potential target of assassination.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901013-0046"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The Egyptian government said today that Iraqi agents or Egyptian
Moslem fundamentalists were responsible for the assassination Friday
of Rifaat el- Mahgoub, its second-highest official. The Interior
Minister said saboteurs with orders from Iraqi President Sadam Hussein
had been sent to assassinate Egyptian officials. This was the first
assassination of an Egyptian politician since President Anwar Sadat
was killed by Islamic extremists nine years ago. The newspaper
Al-Ahram reported that Moslem extremists were collaborating with
Palestinian terrorists sent by Iraq and that El-Mahgoub was
assassinated to tell the terrorists' bosses that they had pierced the
stability of Egypt.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0005"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Although three presidential candidates have been assassinated,
Colombia's government refused Friday to put off next month's
election. The Medellin drug cartel has denied responsibility for the
assassination Friday of Carlos Pizarro, formerly of the M-19 rebel
group. Government officials had said that Pizarro could have helped
mediate peace agreements with other leftist insurgents. Last month the
candidate of the leftist Patriotic Union Party, Bernardo Jaramillo,
was killed and last August a candidate of the ruling Liberal Party,
Carlos Galan, was assassinated. Governing party candidate Cesar
Gaviria, the presidential front-runner, suspended campaign activities
after Pizarro's death.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0108"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Less than a month before elections, a third presidential candidate in
Colombia has been assassinated. A gunman on a suicide mission shot
Carlos Pizarro, candidate of the leftist April 19 Movement, or M-10,
on a jetliner Thursday.  Sen. Luis Carlos Galan of the ruling Liberal
Party was assassinated in Bogota last August and Bernardo Jaramillo of
the leftist Patriotic Union Party was killed last month at the Bogota
airport. Authorities have blamed the assassinations on drug
traffickers. Official investigations have shown that some members of
the Colombian armed forces are allied with drug traffickers and
right-wing death squads.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06143070"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

India's election was postponed today after Tuesday's assassination of
former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Gandhi, 46, died after a powerful
bomb exploded near a campaign platform in Sriperumbudur, about 30
miles from Madras, the capital of Tamil Nadu. At least 14 other people
died in the blast. There was no evidence as to who was responsible,
but speculation focused on Tigers of Tamil Eelam, a Tamil separatist
guerilla force that has assassinated dozens of political
enemies. Rajiv Gandhi became prime minister in 1984 after the
assassination of his mother Indira Gandhi by Sikh militants.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT944-18184"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Last week the number two official in Mexico's ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party (PRI) was assassinated. The killing of Jose
Francisco Ruiz Massieu was allegedly ordered by Manuel Munoz Rocha, a
federal deputy of the PRI and Abraham Rubio Canales, a former tourism
developer with strong links to the Gulf drug cartel in the state of
Tamaulipas. Munoz Rocha has admitted to a role in the crime but put
the responsibility on Rubio Canales. Political reactionaries and drug
traffickers are thought to have played a role in the killing six
months ago of the PRI's reform-minded presidential candidate Luis
Donaldo Colosio.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-23360"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Lebanese and Jordanian authorities have unraveled the mystery
surrounding the assassination of Jordanian diplomat Na'ib al-
Ma'ayitah in Beirut on 29 January.  It appears that the Abu-Nidal
group, the prime suspects in the assassination, was not acting
alone. There was close coordination between the Fatah-- the
Revolutionary Council (FRC) of the Abu-Nidal group and Jordanian
fundamentalist extremist groups sponsored by Iran, specifically the
Jordanian fundamentalist Islamic Mobilization Youth Organization
(IMYO) which is financed by Iran. The assassins received training at
an Abu-Nidal center in Lebanon from a Palestinian expert in
assassinations who was implicated in the assassination of FRC official
Bahij Abu-al-Hana in July 19 92.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-11919"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

There has been widespread international reaction to the assassination
of Luis Donaldo Colosio Murrieta, presidential candidate for the
Mexican Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) on March 233 in
Tijuana. The Colombian Government and several presidential candidates
expressed their regrets and condemned such violence. A spokesman for
the Cuban Foreign ministry extended the sympathy of the Cuban people
to the Mexican Government and people. In El Salvador leaders of the
ruling Arena Party and of the opposition coalition expressed
condolences and condemned the cowardly act. Venezuela's Foreign
Minister deplored the assassination and expressed his sadness over the
incident.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-27602"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

A joint military-prosecution investigation team which probed the
assassination of South Korean President Pak Chong-hui by then Central
Intelligence Agency Director Kim Chae-kyu in October 1979 found no
evidence that then Army Chief of Staff and martial law commander,
Gen. Chong Sung-hwa was an accomplice in the crime. Chong was nearby
when Kim killed Pak and was subsequently arrested and indicted on a
charge of high treason despite a lack of concrete evidence. The Seoul
District Prosecutor's Office is looking into a criminal suit filed by
victims of the Dec. 12, 1979 arrests including Chong.</SUM>
