<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6455"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

US cities along the Gulf of Mexico from Alabama to eastern Texas were
on alert last night as Hurricane Andrew headed west after hitting
southern Florida leaving at least eight dead, causing severe property
damage, and leaving 1.2 million homes without electricity.  Gusts of
up to 165 mph were recorded. It is the fiercest hurricane to hit the
US in decades.  As Andrew moved across the Gulf there was concern that
it might hit New Orleans, which would be particularly susceptible to
flooding, or smash into the concentrated offshore oil
facilities. President Bush authorized federal disaster assistance for
the affected areas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6110"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
   
As hurricane Andrew headed west along the coast of the Gulf of Mexico,
government officials in Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas yesterday
urged more than two million people to evacuate coastal areas. The
likeliest landfall is to the west of New Orleans, a city particularly
vulnerable to flooding since it lies below sea level, has the
Mississippi River running through it, and has a large lake immediately
to its north. In Florida, Andrew hit hardest 10-15 miles south of
Miami, leveling the town of Homestead and a nearby air force base. It
was estimated today that damage from Andrew could reach $20
billion.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6038"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
   
Hurricane Andrew made landfall late Tuesday night some 60 miles
southwest of New Orleans smashing its way through largely rural Cajun
country. The hurricane landed with winds of about 120 mph, causing
severe damage in small coastal centers, but sparing New Orleans. The
storm lost force as it moved north over land and by yesterday
afternoon was downgraded to a tropical storm with windspeeds less than
75 mph. The storm caused little damage to Louisiana's oil refining
industry. A senior member of Lloyd's said yesterday insurers' losses
in Florida are likely to be less than $1 billion, well below earlier
predictions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5835"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
 
General Accident (GA), the leading British insurer, said yesterday
that Hurricane Andrew could cost it as much as $40 million. A company
spokesman later explained, however, that GA has only a 1/2% share of
the Florida market. The company's adjusters who are trying to estimate
the losses guess that losses by all insurers combined may total more
that $8 billion, but there have been other estimates that the storm
caused more than $20 billion of damage. Still other insurers have
estimated that losses could be as low as $1 billion. "No one knows at
this time what the exact loss is." the spokesman explained.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5797"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
   
While workers fanned out across Louisiana yesterday for a massive
rebuilding effort after the destruction caused by Hurricane Andrew,
officials in Florida complained of delays in supplying critical
assistance to thousands of people in need. Transportation Secretary
Andrew Card promised "dramatic" improvements.  In Dade County Florida
it was reported that the hurricane had wiped out the homes of one
resident in eight, affecting a quarter of a million people. The
government estimated that it would cost $20-30 billion to rebuild and
care for displaced residents in Florida.  The Federal Emergency
Management Agency said it was setting aside $77 million to help
Louisiana recover.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5267"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
 
It is estimated that 275,000 people are without electricity and at
least 150,000 are either homeless or living among ruins as a result of
Hurricane Andrew which ripped through southern Florida last
week. President Bush yesterday made his second visit to the region
since the hurricane hit. He pledged the government would see through
the clean-up "until the job is done." US insurers expect to pay out
$7.3 billion in Florida making Hurricane Andrew by far the costliest
disaster the industry has ever faced. This estimate does not include
any projection for claims in Louisiana, so the final cost will be
higher still.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5089"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
 
Hurricane Andrew, the costliest disaster to hit the US, has helped the
re- election campaign of President Bush. After a faltering initial
response, the administration is getting assistance to the hurricane's
victims. Earlier the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the ultimate
Republican patronage backwater, was caught completely unprepared by
Andrew. Now the Transportation Secretary and Chief of Staff have
jumped in to fill the breach. The president has dispatched troops to
Florida, promised to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, and has
committed the government to pay the emergency relief costs. The latest
polls show Bush closing the gap in his campaign for re-election.</SUM>
