<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-8860"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">         
 
The World Bank will link loan volume to the strength of a country's
efforts to fight poverty according to an operational directive issued
by Mr. Lewis Preston, the bank's president.

The link between loans and poverty relief forms part of a new drive to
make poverty alleviation the bank's central mission in the 1990's.

This new commitment to make comprehensive assessments of the nature
and extent of poverty in the third world is a priority for the bank's
effort to design more effective policies to fight poverty.

The bank says poverty assessments should be available for most
developing countries within two years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880926-0203"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

At the opening session of the 42nd General Assembly Monday, Third
World countries led by Brazil blamed industrialized nations in part
for perpetuating their poverty.

Foreign Minister Roberto de Abreau Sodre of Brazil said that the Third
World economic picture was dimming "due to the lack of progress in
international economic relations."

A similar theme sounded Monday in West Berlin, where finance ministers
of 22 developed or developing countries demanded "more forceful
action" to help Third World countries repay $1.2 trillion in
debts. Foreign Affairs Secretary Obed Asamoah of Ghana asked creditors
to write off some debts.  Ghana has an estimated foreign debt of $2.8
billion.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-5176"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

In a letter from Lord Bauer, House of Lords, Westminster SW1, Lord
Bauer expressed his concerns that the international community may be
encouraging Third World countries to default on debts.

Lord Bauer writes "The debts of African countries have often been
canceled or rescheduled, frequently several times for the same
country."

In expressing his views on some causes of poverty he writes "To harp
on alleged external causes of Third World poverty diverts attention
from the real factors behind this poverty which are domestic, and
thereby from the possibilities of addressing these." He suggests that
some causes may include government dependence on precarious
subsistence production.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871216-0037"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Bank of Boston Corp.'s decision to treat its Third World loans much
more conservatively is expected to have significant domestic and
international repercussions.

Domestically, the move reflects the competitive advantage that
regional banks with large loan-loss reserves have over their big
brothers in such money centers as New York, Chicago and San Francisco.
Internationally, it appears that it will be even more difficult for
economically troubled developing nations to attract new bank loans.

While large banks are eager to remain competitive with such regionals
as Bank of Boston, they also want to ensure that regionals continue to
lend to heavily indebted developing nations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-12322"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Mr. Lewis Preston, World Bank President, yesterday promised to
strengthen the bank's efforts to reduce poverty in developing
countries.

However, he failed to respond to demands from the Clinton
administration for the bank to set more precise targets for the
proportion of lending that should have an explicit poverty focus.

In fiscal 1992, nearly half of all World Bank adjustment loans failed
to include specific poverty reduction measures, in spite of a call
from Mr. Preston to put greater emphasis on poverty relief.
 
The share of bank lending allocated for "human resource development"
is still only 14 percent.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880621-0079"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

After a year and a half in office, World Bank President Barber Conable
has failed to move the bank into a leadership role on the Third World
debt problem.

While the debt morass has deepened, Mr. Conable's World Bank has
looked inward, shuffling its organization charts around in a
disruptive reorganization and then campaigning for a $74.8 billion
increase in its capital.

While defending his approach to the debt problem, Mr. Conable
explains: "We aren't a financial institution but a development
institution."  But critics reject that view.  Even some Reagan
administration officials privately despair of Mr. Conable's leadership
and fear that it may have been a mistake to appoint him.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA091889-0088"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Third World debtors had to pay $50.1 billion more to service their
debt to the United States and other creditors last year than they
received in new loans "a major drain on their already cash-strapped
economies" the World Bank reported Sunday.

The bank also reported that, despite the relatively buoyant economic
growth in most industrial countries, developing countries turned in a
decidedly mixed performance, ranging from a mini-boom in Southeast
Asian economies to further impoverishment in Africa.

The net cash drain from the debtor counties to the richer ones began
in 1984. Until then, richer countries had provided more in new loans
to Third World Nations that those countries paid back.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900416-0188"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

John Hatch, founder of the non-profit Foundation for International
Community Assistance that promotes village banking to encourage
enterprise in the Third World, developed a concept of using small
revolving loans to poor women to finance their private enterprise,
allowing them to create savings while paying interest and qualifying
for bigger loans.

The series of loans, starting at $50, is renewable over three years to
a ceiling of $300, allowing recipients to reach a level at which they
can qualify for commercial credit.

What Hatch envisioned five years ago has translated into 400 village
banks in nine countries.  Portfolios total $1.6 million, with a 96
percent repayment rate.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-2650"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

When Lewis Preston takes over as president of the World Bank this
September, he will have to find a way to best promote development in
the Third World.

The bank has not had an effective president since the 1980s when
Robert McNamara headed the institution.

Grinding poverty is a near universal condition in much of the world
where 1 billion people live on less than one dollar a day.

In the past decade Third World countries have gone backwards.  Real
per capita incomes have declined substantially in sub-Saharan Africa
and the Middle East, and mildly in Latin America.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910607-0063"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

U.S. development organizations are finding that some of the world's
poorest entrepreneurs repay their debts at rates approaching 100%.
Their repayment performance shines when compared with that of many
sovereign nations.

Tiny Third World businesses commonly repay "microloans" faithfully
because they crave the security of a favorable credit rating.  The
money helps them start or expand their businesses "selling vegetables,
sewing, repairing shoes, making furniture and the like" and boosts
their local economies.

Through microlending U.S. development groups believe they are
exporting free-market economics to tiny businesses that can fuel
growth in the developing world.</SUM>
