
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880310-0257 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-03-10-88 1335EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>a w AM-PlasticGuns Adv14   03-10 1070</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Plastic Guns, Adv 14,1099</SECOND>
<NOTE>$adv14</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Mon AMs, March 14 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Both Sides Would Ban Them From Airports, But Still Can't Agree</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LARRY MARGASAK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   If this had been another issue, liberal Sen.
Howard Metzenbaum and conservative Sen. James McClure might have
quietly hammered out differences between their rival bills to make
certain that plastic pistols can't get through airport metal
detectors.
   But history has taught that a gun control engagement is never
fought with silencers, even in rare instances like this one, when
rival sponsors have identical goals: stopping terrorists,
especially at airports.
   So once again, bitter enemies of past gun control struggles are
following the usual rules of engagement _ high-powered lobbying,
full-page advertisements, fund-raising appeals and doomsday
rhetoric.
   Sparking the latest debate is a weapon not even on the market.
Red Eye Arms of Winter Park, Fla. says it has a patent for plastic
weapons, but won't start making handguns for at least two years _
and then only for military and police use.
   ``We would never allow anyone to build an undetectable civilian
handgun,'' said company vice president Dwight Brunoehler.
   Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, and McClure, R-Idaho, have vastly different
approaches to require that the guns be made detectable. Both would
ban manufacture or importation of any guns that did not meet their
standards.
   Metzenbaum's bill would require a minimum weight of metal to
ensure that an alarm would be triggered at today's magnetometer
settings. Its target is not only future plastic guns, but pint-size
metal pistols that are not detected today.
   The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms estimates
there are three small metal guns that could get through most
magnetometers now used. The gun owners' lobby estimates there are
countless other models.
   McClure's legislation targets plastic guns only, and has no
minimum metallic requirement. However, it would require that guns
be detectable, by either including some metal, a serial number
engraved or stamped on metal, or a substance detectable by X-ray
machines used for luggage.
   Using today's technology, McClure's bill would require more
sensitive magnetometer settings, more alarms, and therefore more
airport passenger inconvenience _ some say gridlock.
   Brunoehler, of Red Eye Arms, says his firm has developed a
computer chip for plastic guns that would make the lower settings
unnecessary. The chip would emit a signal that would make it appear
that an enormous amount of metal was passing through the machine,
he said.
   Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Fred Farrar said the
FAA is aware of the chip, but believes it could be disabled by
drilling a hole in it or even placing the weapon in a microwave
oven.
   While these are the technical points for debate, a congressional
gun fight often ranges far beyond the issues at hand and this one
is no exception.
   The principal gun owner's lobby, the National Rifle Association,
told its 2.8 million members in a fund-raising letter last year
that Metzenbaum's real goal is ``the first federal gun ban bill in
America.''
   ``If Sen. Metzenbaum's bill passes, the next thing will be some
government official knocking at your door to weigh your guns for
inspection,'' said the NRA, which backs the McClure bill.
   To Handgun Control Inc., the most visible lobby for pistol
regulation, the issue is what the group calls the NRA's extremism.
``Cop-killer bullets, mail-order handguns, machine guns...has the
NRA gone off the deep end?'' says HCI ads, which have different
police chiefs using those same words.
   Handgun Control supports Metzenbaum. So do a dozen law
enforcement organizations.
   ``Both sides are simply waving flags so believers will send
money to Handgun Control Inc. and to the National Rifle
Association,'' says John Aquilino, a former NRA official who now
publishes his own gun owners' newsletter. ``They're making
advertising agencies very wealthy. It's flag-waving and
fund-raising.''
   The latest battle reflects new political realities that surfaced
in 1986. Then, the major law enforcement organizations joined
forces with handgun control advocates to fight NRA-backed
legislation to ease many restrictions of the 1968 Gun Control Act.
   The presence of uniformed policemen lobbying their local
lawmakers began to neutralize some of the NRA's seemingly
invincible clout.
   Nonetheless, the gun lobby attained many of its goals two years
ago with passage of the McClure-Volkmer Act, which changed a number
of provisions of the 1968 law. But the invigorated gun
control-police alliance was able to retain, as part of that fight,
a ban on interstate sales of handguns.
   Now, the same coalition of police and gun control advocates is
back on the detectability question. But Jerald R. Vaughn, executive
director of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, says
of his fellow police lobbyists, ``We're still babes in the woods
when it comes to the political process.''
   Yet, the NRA has taken an unusual turn by backing McClure's
bill. The group normally opposes any legislation that could bring
more restrictions on firearms.
   Only last May, NRA Governmental Affairs Director James Jay Baker
told a House panel, ``The NRA believes that the only workable
approach'' to the detection problem is better security at airports.
   He said ``attempts to dictate metallic content of firearms or
chemical composition of non-metallic components of firearms'' were
unnecessary.
   ``Their position from day one has been, there shall never be any
law on guns,'' said N.T. ``Pete'' Shields, chairman of Handgun
Control Inc.
   ``All of a sudden this issue of plastic handguns has made them
compromise this whole concept. I think they have come a long way,
but I think they're trying to address it with smoke. McClure's bill
is impractical. You would bottle up the airport.''
   Baker said in an interview, ``The NRA has moved a long way on
this issue. We decided to take the bull by the horns and deal with
the terms as framed by the other side. If they're interested in
detectability, it can be done with no interference with existing
firearms.''
   Metzenbaum's most prominent Senate ally is Strom Thurmond, a
conservative South Carolina Republican and ranking Republican on
the Judiciary Committee. Metzenbaum and Thurmond tried to win
passage of their legislation last December, but it was tabled by a
47-42 vote.
   Metzenbaum, in an interview, called McClure's bill ``purely
cosmetic.''
   McClure, also in an interview, said he rejects any arbitrary
metallic standard, and called any potential inconvenience ``part of
the price you pay for having secure airports.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Mon AMs, March 14</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>

