
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900107-0033 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-01-07-90 1156EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>u w AM-GunControl-Washington Bjt   01-07 1111</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Gun Control-Washington, Bjt,950</SECOND>
<HEAD>Murder Rate Soars in D.C. Despite Stiff Gun Control</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CAROLYN SKORNECK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   For the past half-year, as the District of
Columbia's murder rate grew ever higher, actor Charlton Heston has
noted ironically in a National Rifle Association television ad:
``They banned guns in this city a decade ago.''
   ``And the criminals just laugh at their laws,'' he intones,
sirens wailing in the background. ``That tells me guns aren't the
problem. Criminals are.''
   The District of Columbia has one of the nation's toughest gun
laws, yet armed violence persists. Of the record 438 murders in the
nation's capital in 1989, about 78 percent were committed with
firearms, says Metropolitan Police Officer Quintin Peterson.
   In addition, he said, more than 1,300 people were shot and
wounded. Police estimate that about 60 percent of the killings were
drug-related.
   The District of Columbia's Firearms Control Act of 1975,
implemented in February 1977, banned the sale of handguns with a
few exceptions for law enforcement and security personnel and
required registration of all firearms previously purchased. Those
seeking to register the weapons also had to submit to a thorough
background check.
   So where are these guns coming from?
   The federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which
compiles an annual report on guns retrieved in crimes in
Washington, found 52 percent of those collected in 1989 came from
Virginia, a slight increase over 1988, and 18 percent came from
Maryland, up from 15 percent from the previous year, said Dick
Pedersen of the ATF office covering Washington, Maryland and
Virginia.
   ``If you put them together, you have 70 percent'' of the guns,
he said. ``You can basically disregard the rest of the country.
We're looking at ones and twos from rest of the union, people
moving in and losing their gun, having it stolen.''
   The study is based on traces of several hundred guns each year
which are randomly selected, he said. A total of 2,333 firearms
were picked up in Washington last year, he said.
   While some of the weapons are rifles, ``This is really a handgun
city and a handgun area,'' Pedersen said. ``We're finding more than
half the guns picked up in crime now are semiautomatic handguns,
and that appears to be growing, based on the last couple of years.''
   In many cases, these are not the now-infamous Saturday Night
Specials, cheap handguns bought on the spur of the moment.
   ``We find a lot of high-quality firearms, a direct result of the
drug trade,'' Pedersen said. ``They can afford high quality, and
they buy them.''
   Some are the same weapons used by police forces around the
country, 9mm semiautomatic handguns that cost $500 to $700 apiece,
he said. At the same time, many of the guns are small and
concealable .25-caliber semiautomatic pistols that cost about $200,
he said.
   The NRA contends that Washington's murder rate _ the highest in
the nation _ demonstrates that gun control doesn't work.
   Gun control laws vary widely in the major cities with some of
the highest murder rates in 1988. The top 12 among the 35 U.S.
cities with 400,000 or more people included four cities with no gun
control measures, including Detroit, which has the second highest
murder rate.
   Seven more of the 12 had relatively strong gun control laws,
while one, Miami, had a three-day cooling off period for a gun
purchase, but no background check on the buyer.
   At the same time, Honolulu, covered by a strong state gun
control measure, showed the lowest murder rate among the 35 largest
cities.
   Law enforcement officials and gun control advocates say there's
more to the issue than whether an individual city has strong
controls.
   They say Washington's location _ carved out of Maryland and
Virginia with virtually no natural boundaries other than the easily
crossed Potomac River _ makes its handgun ban virtually
unenforceable.
   ``In Washington, you can drive across the river and purchase
handguns,'' said Susan Whitmore of Handgun Control Inc. ``Until
this last year, Virginia had one of the weakest gun laws in the
country.''
   New York City has the same problem, she said.
   ``More than 90 percent (of the guns used in New York crimes)
come from other states with very weak laws,'' Whitmore said.
``That's why we believe we need a national law.''
   A new law in Virginia that took effect Nov. 1, 1989, requires an
immediate background check prior to the purchase of assault-style
weapons and most handguns. A person wishing to buy a gun must
complete an application and the gun dealer must call the Virginia
State Police to get approval for the sale.
   As of Dec. 31, 1989, Virginia officials had approved 9,834 sales
_ each of which could involve numerous guns _ and rejected 109
applications, said state police Lt. R. Lewis Vass, who runs the
program.
   The program has produced an unexpected dividend: the capture of
three fugitives, one from Florida and two from New Jersey. By state
law, police have until the close of business the day after a
gun-purchase application has been rejected to tell the gun dealer
the rejection is confirmed or a search of records found the sale
could be made. As a result, some people rejected initially have
returned to gun stores the next day to get the final decision. In
three cases, police were waiting when the fugitives returned, Vass
said.
   Officials also are hoping prosecution of certain gun dealers
will curb illicit sales. Donald P. Percival, a former U.S. Park
Police officer who owned gun stores in Virginia, and James S.
Chapman, a former D.C. police officer and retired Secret Service
uniformed agent, were convicted in November of illegally selling
semiautomatic handguns to an 18-year-old drug dealer who resold or
traded the weapons for drugs in Washington.
   While Whitmore said she was encouraged by Virginia's new law,
Pedersen said it's still too early to tell what impact it will have
on gunfire in Washington, saying the problem occurs when legitimate
purchasers in Virginia provide weapons to people who would be
ineligible to purchase them legally.
   Gun control groups want national laws, but one law enforcement
official says regional controls might be sufficient.
   ``If you were in a town that had mountains or deserts around it
and people had to travel four hours and take two interstates to get
to the area, I can see how you might control a problem like this,''
the officer said. But in Washington, ``It's like walking across the
street to get a hamburger. We're one large urban area here. It's
hard to keep guns out of D.C. when there are no natural borders.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>

