
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910405-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910405-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Crime-Bill Compromise
</HL>
<DATE>
04/05/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<NS>
LAW &amp; LEGAL ISSUES, HEARINGS, RULINGS, LEGISLATION (LAW)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   After all the lobbying, hand-wringing and Ronald Reagan's
endorsement of the Brady gun-control bill, a ditty says it
all:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cow kicked Nellie in the barn
   Didn't do her any good, didn't do her any harm.
                                                                                                       

   Gun-control laws can never substitute for the hard work of
apprehending and convicting criminals. Still, the Brady bill
is a small price to pay if Congress also agrees to the
administration's crime bill.
   No one believes that this gun bill would have a measurable
effect on violent crime, or even that it would have stopped
John Hinkley from buying the gun he used five months later to
shoot Mr. Reagan and James Brady. There would be a seven-day
waiting period before any gun dealer sells a handgun to a
customer. During that week, state law-enforcement officials
can (but wouldn't have to) investigate whether the purchaser
is a felon or has spent time in a mental institution. The gun
could be sold at the end of the week unless the police find
the evidence to stop the sale.
   The first problem is that there is no way of knowing who
is a felon, much less a mental patient. There is no computer
list of the criminal records from the states. Nine states do
not even require that courts report the final disposition of
felony cases. At the federal level, the FBI doesn't have
records showing the final results in half of its arrests. The
Brady bill would not create any national record of people who
cannot buy handguns. With no list for gun dealers to consult,
the bill's effectiveness dims.
   There is also something breathtaking in the claim that
crime can be stopped by regulating gun dealers. Attorney
General Dick Thornburgh calls this the "17% solution." Fewer
than one-in-five handguns acquired by felons are bought from
gun dealers. There is an active gun market, including
rent-a-gun operations in some public-housing projects. Making
it harder to buy from legitimate dealers will boost street
sales.
   Gun control has become the $600 toilet seat of the crime
debate. Yes, it would be good to keep firearms out of the
hands of felons and the mentally incompetent. But all the
talk about gun control has prevented the serious discussion
on crime this country desperately needs to have.
   For example, why don't we have records of felons? Part of
the answer is to imagine how long it would take an ACLU
affiliate somewhere to file a lawsuit alleging that the
rights of felons or certifiably dangerous mental patients
would be violated by a national registry.
   As with the drug problem, the only solution to crimes with
guns is on the demand side. Americans own perhaps 150 million
firearms; that is more guns than cars. Even if we somehow
banned sales of all weapons from butter knives to imported
semi-automatics, the current supply is more than adequate for
street crimes.
   This is why a Brady bill, which won't work but which also
won't cause much harm, would be a reasonable trade-off for
the Bush crime bill. Under the administration's bill,
criminals, especially ones who use firearms, would face more
certain punishment. The bill would finally limit the endless
appeals from death-penalty convictions and create new death
penalties for drug-related killings.
   Our favorite provision would offer more effective gun
control than the Brady bill. This is Mr. Thornburgh's
"inclusionary rule" to replace the exclusionary rule's absurd
result that a criminal goes free because a constable
blundered. The jury would still get to see the evidence of
the gun and convict the criminal even where evidence of a
firearm is obtained under a faulty search warrant or some
other technical problem. Instead of keeping the truth from
jurors, the evidence would be allowed. But to encourage
lawful searches, the Justice Department would also set up a
system to pay compensation to people who are wrongly searched
and to discipline erring officers directly.
   Over the past 30 years, everything from "Miranda"
censoring of confessions to activist judges declaring that
jails are "too crowded" has created a reign of lawlessness.
The chances of a crime leading to an arrest, conviction and
serious prison term are well under one-in-100 in many parts
of the country. We may have more people in jail than ever
before, but it is still true that a rational criminal can
calculate the odds that crime does pay.
   Gun-control proposals only hide the deeper problem that
the country still lacks the will to punish criminals. Our
idea of real gun and crime control starts with freeing the
law-enforcement system from the many procedural hurdles that
deter it from providing law, order and justice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

