
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890123-0150 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-01-23-89 1610EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>u i AM-SovietQuake 1stLd-Writethru a0647 01-23 1047</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Soviet Quake, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0647,1072</SECOND>
<HEAD>Second Big Soviet Earthquake in Two Months Kills Up to 1,000</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds: SUBS grafs 12-16 pvs, ``Almost all ...'' with 5 grafs to ADD
that Loparev a police major, Okuli-Bolo and Okuli-Poyen near epicenter,
70 villagers buried in Okuli-Bolo; ADDS 1 graf at end with background on
Armenian death toll.</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhotos MOS23,25,27,29</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN-THOR DAHLBURG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A predawn earthquake in Soviet Central Asia
unleashed a 50-foot-high wall of dirt and mud that buried a mountain
village and swept through at least two others Monday, killing up to
1,000 people as they slept, officials said.
   The devastating earthquake in the republic of Tadzhikistan was
the second to strike the Soviet Union in two months.
   ``Almost everybody died,'' Zainiddin Nasreddinov, editor-in-chief
of Tadzhikistan's official news agency, said by telephone after
visiting the wrecked farming settlement of Sharora. He estimated the
number of dead there alone at 600.
   Sharora ``had more than 150 peasant households before that tragic
moment,'' the Soviet news agency Tass reported. ``Now most of it is
razed to the ground by the ruthless force of the natural calamity.''
   Tass said the number of dead in the disaster zone 1,800 miles
southeast of Moscow was estimated at 1,000, but cautioned that was a
preliminary figure.
   ``Rescue work is being continued and distant mountain villages
have not been checked yet,'' Tass said. Damaged roads were hampering
those efforts.
   The quake struck the southwestern part of Tadzhikistan, a Soviet
republic of more than 4.8 million people that borders Afghanistan
and China.
   The 40-second tremor, at 5:02 a.m. (6:02 p.m. EST Sunday) was
centered about 20 to 30 miles southwest of Tadzhikistan's capital of
Dushanbe, a city of more than 460,000 people, in the fertile Gissar
district, a center of grapegrowing and livestock-raising, Tass said.
   An official at Dushanbe's seismic center said the quake was
strong enough to knock things off shelves in tall apartment
buildings in the city, but that it caused no known damage or
injuries there. He declined to give his name.
   The U.S. Geological Survey in Reston, Va., estimated the quake at
5.4 on the Richter scale, which measures ground motion as recorded
on a seismograph. The Dec. 7 earthquake in northwestern Armenia,
1,300 miles west of Dushanbe, registered a 6.9 on the Richter scale
and killed 25,000 people.
   The earthquake unhinged a wall of sodden dirt and mud at least
five miles wide that buried the village of Okuli-Bolo and much of
Sharora, said Erkin Kasimov, an official of Tadzhikistan's Foreign
Ministry.
   ``Almost all of the victims died asleep in their beds,'' Police
Maj. Alexander Loparev, duty officer at Tadzhikistan Interior
Ministry headquarters in Dushanbe said by telephone.
   Residents of another village, Okuli-Poyen, apparently roused in
time, fled in panic before the mudslide, which traveled 1\ to 1{
miles, could reach their homes, Kasimov said from Dushanbe.
   Officials and Soviet media said the devastation was vast, and
total in places.
   In Okuli-Bolo and Okuli-Poyen, near the epicenter, ``everything
is destroyed _ all the homes, the schools, the hospitals and
clinics, the stores,'' Nasreddinov said.
   Okuli-Bolo is a ``heap of rubble'' and the chairman of a local
economic cooperative, Hairrulo Yuldashev, said the households of 70
peasant families were ``completely demolished and buried by the
landslide,'' Tass said. More than 70 villagers were buried by the
landslide, it said.
   In Sharora, ``cries and wails can be heard everwhere,'' Tass
reported. ``Some are bemoaning and burying their near and dear ones,
while others are trying to find the few survivors between the thick
layer of sand and clay.''
   It said all of the village's streets had been buried under the
50-foot-high layer of earth that the earthquake detached from a hill
near the village.
   The TV news program ``Vremya'' showed aerial footage of Sharora,
with white roofs of buried homes peeking through the dirt like
seashells scattered on a beach.
   Kasimov said that according to preliminary figures, the quake and
landslide destroyed about 100 buildings, including five schools and
a maternity hospital near the epicenter.
   The hospital was evacuated of mothers and newborns before the
wall of mud arrived and there were no victims, he said.
   There was no exact count available for the population of the
stricken villages. But the official at the Dushanbe seismic center
said families are traditionally large in the mostly Moslem republic,
and that one dwelling often houses eight to 10 people.
   The quake and landslide downed three miles of power lines,
destroyed nine miles of telephone lines and inundated four miles of
a navigation canal with mud, Kasimov said.
   ``Thousands of head of publicly owned cattle have perished,''
Tass said. It said thousands of acres of fertile farmland were
covered ``by a thick layer of sand and clay.''
   Nasreddinov said the buildings destroyed were one-story brick
structures. Soldiers went to the villages to keep order and restore
communications, electricity and water, he said.
   Kasimov said geologists believed water from mountain springs had
accumulated under the soil of the hills in the Gissar region, making
them prone to mudslides.
   ``When the earthquake came, it was like a catapult, and it hurled
the sodden earth onto the villages below,'' Kasimov said.
   Tass said bulldozers, cranes and excavators had been rushed to
the quake zone to help dig for survivors, and that volunteers had
come from Dushanbe and other nearby areas to help in rescue and
relief.
   Equipment, food and fuel were also sent to the scene, Tass said.
   On ``Vremya,'' a statement of condolences from the Kremlin
leadership was read, and aid promised from the national government.
According to Nasreddinov, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev telephoned
Tadzhikistan officials to promise Moscow's help.
   In Washington, U.S. State Department spokesman Charles Redman
said he knew of no request for assistance from the Soviets. ``Our
sympathy certainly goes out again to the victims of this most recent
earthquake,'' he said.
   The experience of the Armenian earthquake shows the death toll in
Tadzhikistan could be much higher than the first estimates. Soviet
officials, including Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnaze,
initially spoke of ``thousands'' of victims in the Armenian quake.
Kremlin spokesmen later estimated 55,000 people had been killed, but
on Dec. 29, Armenian officials gave what they called an accurate
death toll of 25,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

