<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870306-0171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

Confounding predictions of its demise four years ago during the worst
diamond slump since the 1930s, De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the
South African concern that controls 80% of the world's uncut-diamond
market, is thriving.  De Beers's Central Selling Organization, known
as the Syndicate, is the pipeline between diamond mines and dealers
based mainly in Antwerp, Belgium; Bombay, India; Tel Aviv, Israel, and
New York.  Some analysts warn, however, that De Beers's future may be
affected by the surge in diamond output elsewhere, notably Australia.
World diamond production has soared to 88 million carats from 47
million carats in 1982.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0192"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

The De Beers diamond empire, controlled by the wealthy Oppenheimer
family of South Africa face an uncertain future.  The black majority
in South Africa threatens De Beers largely because of a newly
energized political will.  The African National Congress has pledged
to nationalize South Africa's major sources of wealth if it takes
power.  De Beers must this year renegotiate five-year contracts with
Botswana, the second biggest diamond producer in terms of value, and
Argyle Diamonds of Western Australia, the biggest producer in terms of
quantity.  Apparently attempting to limit risk, De Beers recently
announced it would split South African and foreign interests into two
publicly held companies, one based in Switzerland.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890131-0280"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

It was announced Tuesday that The Office of Trading is investigating
the anti- competitive practices of South Africa's De Beers Diamond
organization.  The Office of Fair Trading is a watchdog organization.
There have been complaints against De Beers suggesting they have a
monopoly on diamond trading in London. The investigation is looking
into whether there has been an abuse of power.  British mining concern
Consolidated Gold Fields PLC admitted that it filed a complaint.
There is no time limit on The Office of Fair Trading's investigation.
The OFT may also decide to refer the complaint to the Monopolies and
Mergers Commission.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8941"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

The De Beers South African Diamond Concern let one get away.  Now
investors are being asked to provide money for a diamond mine in
Zimbabwe.  De Beers found diamonds at River Branch in 1975 but decided
to move on to another site 60 kilometers away across the border in
South Africa. Mr. Robin Baxter-Brown, a new joint owner of River
Branch said that De Beers bulldozed the site before leaving.  Now that
site is estimated by joint venturers to have resources of 17.5m tons
containing 5m carats of diamonds.  Since mining started in March last
year it has produced 43,000 carats of diamonds Baxter-Brown
said.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-4951"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

De Beers, the South African group that dominates world trade in rough
(uncut) diamonds, still has complete faith in its ability to maintain
stability in the diamond market.  The Jwaneng mine is the richest
diamond mine in the world in terms of the value of the stones it
yields.  Meanwhile, 160km west of Kimberley in the northern Cape
Province of South Africa, the Finsch mine, where operations started in
1964, has opened an new underground 423 meter pit.  The finch mine had
run into difficulties because of turmoil in the diamond market caused
mainly my uncertainties about Russian Exports.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870908-0047"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. is raising its diamond prices an
average of 10% next month.  The South African concern that controls
80% of the world diamond market sells a vast array of diamonds,
varying in quality and size, dealers say.  So the increase could be as
much as 20% on top-grade diamonds.  The rise follows an average price
increase of 14.5% last year.  Prices of one-carat D-flawless diamonds
have risen to about $14,800 a carat from $12,000 at the beginning of
the year, dealers say.  In 1985, a top quality stone was $8,500 a
carat, down from an average of $55,000 in 1980.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-7126"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

A Rush for diamonds by miners in Angola and Canada are threatening the
ability for the De Beers cartel to keep its tight grip on the diamond
market.  In Canada's Northwest Territories where 81 small diamonds
were found, prospectors are laying claim to every piece of land within
300km of the discovery.  In Angola, more than $1 million worth of
diamonds a day are being smuggled out of that country for sale in
Antwerp.  An estimated 50,000 private-enterprise diggers are at work
already and their numbers are being swelled by 500 a day.  This rise
in illegal mining started in May, 1991.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-3463"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Negotiations for a new contract between Botswana, the world's most
important diamond producer in value terms, and De Beers, the South
African diamond group are taking much longer than expected.  Some
Botswana politicians want to change De Beers' exclusive sales contract
so that part of their country's output can be sold independently of
the South African group's international cartel.  De Beers is resisting
any change and argues that if Botswana chose not to sell its
production exclusively through cartel, the cartel's ability to
regulate the distribution of rough diamonds would be
compromised.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-5628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Venetia is De Beers' newest diamond mine.  Last year the mine more
than doubled output and processed 3.6m tons of ore to recover 4.96m
carats.  About 70% of Ventia's diamonds are of gem quality and
analysts suggest that at $100 a carat on average the mine is
generating annual sales of about $500 million.  When Venetia first
started up it was given permission to operate seven-days a week and
later went to five-day weeks.  The mine has revitalized De Beers'
production and accounts for half the output in South Africa and
replaces production from its 100-year-old Kimberley mines.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5859"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Harry Oppenheimer of De Beers will visit Russia next week when the
republic is considering a big shake-up in its diamond
industry. Oppenheimer, former chairman of De Beers, and his son
Nicholas will be meeting senior officials from the Russian diamond
industry. He will be going to some of the big mines in Siberia and
will be present when De Beers holds the formal opening of its Moscow
office.  De Beers signed a five billion- dollar contract for uncut
diamonds in 1990 with the former Soviet Union. After a break- up of
the Soviet Union the De Beers contract was continued with
Rosalmazzoloto, the Russian gold and diamond organization.</SUM>
