<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

A lengthy statement attributed to the imprisoned Shining Path
leadership raises new doubts over a call for peace.  The statement,
published recently in a leading opposition newspaper, provides what
appears to be a strategic rationale for the peace proposal made by the
insurgents last fall.  While the newspaper has accepted the document
as an authentic call for peace by the Shining Path, the paper has also
stressed that the peace called for in the statement is nothing more
than a temporary tactical retreat by the Shining Path leaders and is
not, as President Alberto Fujimori has contended, an implicit
admission of defeat.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-56863"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">      

The Shining Path Central Committee, made up of members who have not
been arrested as well as alternative members elected by the Shining
Path congress in 1988, decided in February to continue the "people's
war."  The committee also considered whether those members who uphold
the peace accord with the government be removed from the party "by
their own free will."  The document criticizes the leaders under
arrest who try to convince the militants still operating to end the
hostilities against the Peruvian government.  The Central Committee
started a new phase of the "people's war" and planed an operation to
rescue imprisoned leader Abimael Guzman Reinoso, dead or alive.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-51875"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

In a statement made during a television interview in Peru, subversion
specialist Carlos Tapia said he believes the Shining Path does not
intend to seek reconciliation in the country, has disarmed itself
neither militarily nor ideologically, and is instead trying to become
a semi-legal political party operating as a shock force against the
opposition.  Tapia emphasized that the Shining Path faction led by
Abimael Guzman Reinoso enjoys government favor and has been given
assistance in organizing a second party congress.  Tapia also stated
that imprisoned Shining Path members have been allowed to tour several
prisons and to promote debates.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900720-0113"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

As Alberto Fujimori prepares to take over as Peru's next president on
July 28, the question of whether the Shining Path guerrilla movement
will hound his administration as it has the previous two ranks high
among his concerns.  Among Shining Path watchers, there is strong
disagreement on fundamentals: Is the Shining Path getting stronger or
weaker? Is it making progress or losing ground among the population?
And finally, who is actually winning the war?  Mr. Fujimori will have
his work cut out for him when he takes office.  The insurgents have
followed Shining Path Founder Abimael Guzman with the commitment that
the faithful reserve for their prophet.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880816-0234"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

A death squad opposed to the Shining Path guerrillas has threatened to
kill a district attorney if he investigates charges that soldiers
massacred dozens of peasants, his office said Tuesday.  The Rodrigo
Franco Command, which has vowed to kill a Shining Path member or
sympathizer for every person slain by guerrillas, issued the threat
against District Attorney Carlos Escobar on Monday, according to his
office in Ayacucho.  Escobar is investigating charges that troops
rounded up dozens of peasants, accused them of being Shining Path
members and killed them.  The alleged massacre occurred in May near
Cayara, a farming village 40 miles south of Ayacucho.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900607-0039"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

Shining Path rebels have formed a new front to push their insurgency
into Lima and other coastal urban areas, President Alan Garcia said
after two powerful car bombs exploded within blocks of the Government
Palace.  Rebels have stepped up attacks in Lima prompting a series of
weekend raids around the capital that resulted in the seizure of five
Shining Path safe houses and 31 arrests.  Garcia said the newly formed
People's Defense Revolutionary Movement is the "urban, metropolitan
organ of the Shining Path." The Maoist-inspired Shining Path operates
in at least half of Peru, especially in the mountains and jungle, but
has had little success in expanding to coastal cities.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-22942"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

President Alberto Fujimori has admitted that talks are being held
between government representatives and Shining Path leaders in prison,
according to a report on the Lima- based television program "Sunday
Review."  The main points of a peace agreement between the two would
be the surrender of weapons and a general amnesty.  The peace talks
are being led by Abimael Guzman, the Shining Path founder who has been
serving a life sentence since October 1992.  The 10-point agreement
says its main goal is to "stop the popular war with its four forms of
fighting: terrorism, selective murders, sabotage, and armed agitation
and propaganda."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881227-0185"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

Shining Path guerrillas, who started their bloody uprising in the
mountains of Peru eight years ago, are moving into the shantytowns
that encircle the country's capital.  The Maoist followers of the
movement, once secretive fanatics, are becoming a political force that
seeks public support in Huaycan and the other makeshift communities
where two- thirds of Lima's 7 million people live. Shining Path's move
into a more public role, and through most of Peru from its Andean base
in the province of Ayacucho, has coincided with economic collapse and
annual inflation of nearly 2,000 percent.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890907-0221"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

In a nation where economic chaos reigns and few laws are respected,
the Shining Path is setting down clear rules and making them
stick. The guerrillas have banned drug abuse, prostitution,
homosexuality and thievery from the villages they control in Peru's
Upper Huallaga River Valley. "In a sense, they enforce a
hyper-Christian morality--except they kill you if you break the
rules," said the Rev. Paul Feeley, a Canadian Roman Catholic priest
working in Aucayacu, 255 miles northeast of Lima.  The Shining Path
enjoys the support of tens of thousands of farmers in the jungle of
Upper Huallaga Valley, the world's largest source of coca leaf.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880613-0161"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

Police captured the top military leader of the Shining Path, the
Maoist rebel group whose eight-year guerrilla war has taken more than
10,000 lives in Peru, officials said.  Police captured Osman Morote,
43, considered the most radical leader of the movement.  Police said
Morote was arrested before dawn Sunday at a house in downtown Lima
along with two women. "Morote is considered the No. 2 of the party and
its military chief," the independent magazine Si said recently. The
Shining Path is seeking to overthrow Peru's elected government and
install a peasant and worker state patterned after the ideas of Mao
Tse-tung.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870501-0141"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

The Shining Path rebels represent themselves as defenders of
impoverished Peruvian coca farmers.  Shining Path guerrillas demand
that farmers pay for protection from anti- drug police with one-fifth
of their coca crop.  In the late 1970s, poor farmers began replacing
their fields of cacao and coffee with coca.  Like thousands of other
farmers they discovered that coca could make them rich.  The large
profits have also attracted the murderous Shining Path to the jungles
of northeast Lima.  An embarrassed U.S.  government's anti-drug effort
may have aggravated the situation by pushing coca growers closer to
the guerrillas.</SUM>
