
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900419-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900419-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   New Drug Shows
   Promise Treating
   Type of Leukemia
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/19/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A new cancer drug proved strikingly successful with very
few side effects in treating a relatively rare form of
leukemia, researchers said.
   The drug, called 2-CdA, was nearly 100% effective treating
12 patients with hairy-cell leukemia. The patients underwent
just one seven-day treatment and experienced almost none of
the debilitating side effects such as vomiting, hair-loss and
kidney and liver problems associated with other chemotherapy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The results need to be replicated by other researchers
before definitive conclusions can be made, and the long-term
effect of the treatment remains unknown. But the initial
experience with the compound is especially promising, and an
apparent improvement over other therapy for the disease,
scientists said.
   "There aren't many {drugs} where you can administer one
course of treatment and have the disease go away and stay
away for as long as four years," says Lawrence Piro, chief of
cancer research at Scripps Clinic &amp; Research Foundation, La
Jolla, Calif., where the drug was developed. "The leukemia
hasn't come back in any of the patients we treated." The
study is published in today's New England Journal of
Medicine.
   "It is without doubt the most effective treatment for
hairy-cell leukemia, in terms of rapidity of response," adds
Elihu H. Estey, a cancer researcher at the University of
Texas-M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston. Dr. Estey
recently began treating patients with 2-CdA and has had
similar results with five patients. "It's a striking
finding," he says. "It's very unlikely to be a fluke."
   Hairy-cell leukemia, so-called because of the appearance
of the cancerous cells under the microscope, affects about
6,000 people in the U.S., with 600 new cases a year. As the
disease progresses, patients become anemic, are vulnerable to
infection and often need blood transfusions.
   Until the mid-1980s, treatments were ineffective, and
patients often died of blood problems and infections. Since
then, alpha interferon, a drug sold by Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
and Schering-Plough Corp. and an experimental drug called
deoxycoformycin have significantly reduced death rates from
hairy-cell leukemia. Hoffmann-La Roche is the U.S. subsidiary
of F. Hoffmann-La Roche &amp; Co. of Switzerland.
   But neither drug is as effective as 2-CdA appears to be in
low doses and both can cause such side effects as nausea,
vomiting, skin rashes and nervous-system disorders,
researchers say. "With the lack of toxicity and the ease with
which people go into remission {with 2-CdA}, I think there's
something really going on here," says Ellin Berman, a staff
leukemia doctor at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,
New York.
   Scripps said it negotiated an agreement with a subsidiary
of Johnson &amp; Johnson, New Brunswick, N.J., to produce and
distribute 2-CdA to other centers for broader clinical
trials. The researchers said the drug is easy to produce and
thus is likely to be less expensive than other cancer
treatments.
   In the 12-patient study, 2-CdA, short for
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, was administered continuously for
seven days to patients aged 36 to 61. Within eight to 10
weeks, 11 of the patients had no trace of cancer in their
blood or bone marrow; the 12th had a small amount remaining
in the marrow, but he declined further bone marrow
monitoring, Dr. Piro said. His blood tests are normal, Dr.
Piro added. None of the patients have had a relapse; complete
remission has lasted from seven to 46 months after treatment,
according to the study.
   "When you can make all the disease go away with a single
infusion of therapy, you have a disease which may be able to
be cured," Dr. Piro said. But because hairy-cell leukemia
proliferates slowly, a relapse could occur long after
treatment. Longer follow-up is necessary to determine whether
2-CdA actually cures the disease.
   The drug was first made about 10 years ago at Scripps by
Dennis A. Carson, who studied severe combined
immunodeficiency disease, made famous a few years ago by the
Texas boy that lived in a bubble. People with that disease
lack an enzyme that processes deoxyadenosine, a chemical
that, without the enzyme, builds up in infection-fighting
white blood cells and kills them. Since cancer patients have
the enzyme, Scripps scientists developed a compound that
mimics deoxyadenosine, but tricks the enzyme so it can't be
processed. The compound then kills the white blood cells,
including those that are cancerous. New, normal white cells
are then generated in the bone marrow.
   Because hairy-cell leukemia is rare, a 12-patient study
"is considered a pretty good series," says Sloan-Kettering's
Dr. Berman. "It's ironic that we have three active drugs for
a disease that's fairly rare, but for some of the more common
forms of leukemia, we don't yet have good treatments."
   Dr. Piro said 2-CdA has also been used effectively in
initial trials to treat more common cancers, including
chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkins lymphoma and
cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. About 50% to 60% of patients --
most of whom had failed other treatments -- responded to the
drug, some with complete remission, he said. "Now, we will
use {2-CdA} as a first treatment to see if response and
remission are higher," he said. Meanwhile, researchers at
University of California at San Francisco are testing 2-CdA
on AIDS-related lymphoma.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

