
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910516-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910516-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Acne Drug's Success Against Leukemia
   May Lead to New Way to Treat Cancer
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/16/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   JNJ Z.HR Z.ROC
</CO>
<MS>
CONSUMER NON-CYCLICAL (NCY)
TECHNOLOGY (TEC)
</MS>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY, GENETIC RESEARCH, PROSTHETICS (MTC)
</IN>
<RE>
NEW JERSEY (NJ)
SWITZERLAND (SZ)
</RE>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Preliminary success with a variation of an
acne drug to treat an adult leukemia may have opened a new
avenue to attack cancer, scientists said.
   Although it is still too early to gauge the effectiveness
of the treatment, 16 of 20 patients treated up to nine months
ago have been in remission of their blood cancer, researchers
from Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center here reported.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Because of the way the acne drug is thought to work, the
results support a new concept of cancer chemotherapy. In the
type of leukemia suffered by the patients, white blood cells
have turned malignant at an immature stage of cell
development. Their arrested development is what renders them
practically immortal and dangerous.
   The acne drug is believed to trigger these immature but
malignant cells to divide and mature and then die essentially
a natural death. This new concept of triggering cancer cells
to mature and die contrasts with the conventional concept of
chemotherapy, in which drugs simply poison malignant cells.
   The drug used in the experimental treatment is known as
tretinoin, which belongs to a class of chemicals called
retinoic acids that are related to vitamin A. Tretinoin is
sold in ointment form as Retin-A, the acne medication
produced by Johnson &amp; Johnson's Ortho Pharmaceutical
division. The tretinoin used in the leukemia patients,
however, is a pill that was prepared for the experiment by
chemists at Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., the U.S. arm of Roche
Holding Ltd. of Switzerland. Roche, which has a long history
of making retinoic acids, sells one of its acids as Accutane,
a pill for treating severe acne.
   The particular form of leukemia that appears to respond
readily to the acne-drug type of treatment is called acute
promyelocytic leukemia. It is an uncommon cancer, afflicting
about 1,000 Americans a year, in which certain cells in the
bone marrow become malignant before they have matured into
fully functioning white blood cells. The malignant, immature
white cells (known as myelocytes) flood the blood stream,
producing fatigue, fever, weight loss and bleeding.
   Until now, chemotherapy with standard anti-cancer drugs
has been the only effective treatment for acute
promyelocyltic leukemia, but it produces cures in only about
a third of patients.
   The tip-off that an tretinoin-like drug might be effective
in treating the leukemia came from a genetic finding, Dr.
Raymond P. Warrell Jr. of Memorial Sloan-Kettering and his
colleagues in New York and at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in
Houston reported in this week's New England Journal of
Medicine.
   Most patients with promyleocytic leukemia apparently have
the same defect in two of their 23 chromosomes, the
structures in the cell that contain all the genes. A piece of
chromosome number 17 appears to have broken loose and become
a part of chromosome number 15.
   Last year, molecular geneticists identified one of the
genes in chromosome 17 that was damaged when the chunk of the
chromosome broke loose. The damaged gene, it turned out,
ordinarily made a protein -- a receptor -- that grabbed hold
of retinoic acid. This and other laboratory findings
suggested that the immaturity of the leukemic white blood
cells might somehow be related to a foul-up in the way the
cells handled or failed to handle retinoic acid.
   The nature of the genetic damage also hinted that doses of
retinoic acids might prod the immature malignant cells to
proceed to maturity and then die as normal white blood cells
do.
   "We're now the third group to show remissions {with
tretinoin} in this leukemia," following Chinese and French
researchers, Dr. Warrell said. But, he added, the U.S. group
is the first to show that the drug works by triggering the
immature cancer cells to mature, or to "differentiate," in
the biologists jargon. "We've documented conclusively that
differentiation as a method of cancer therapy in humans is a
reality," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

