<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="FBIS4-4674 AP880629-0159 AP901010-0036 AP900829-0120
AP881210-0115 AP881222-0126 AP901012-0032 AP880902-0062
LA103089-0070 AP880913-0129 AP881206-0114"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

U.S. military aircraft crashes are not uncommon.  In the period from
June 1988 through April 1994 innumerable crashes have been reported
world wide--two F-16 fighter jets near Bodenheim, Germany; an F-16C in
a remote area of Iwate Prefecture in Japan; an A- 10 attack jet in
Britain; a B-52 bomber in Michigan; a Navy F-14 fighter plunging into
the Atlantic of Hatteras, North Carolina; five crashes within two
months in Saudi Arabia; --and more.

Local and national press coverage is extensive when a crash occurs in
or near a densely populated area.  In December 1988, a U.S. Air Force
A-10 Thunderbolt crashed into a working class neighborhood of
Remscheid, West Germany killing six people and severely injuring
seven.  Even before this fatal crash, 12 major military aircraft
accidents had killed 95 people that year alone in Germany, including
70 deaths at an air show accident at the U.S. airbase in Ramstein.
Ironically, this model aircraft has the safest flying record in the
U.S. arsenal.  It experiences an accident rate of less than 4 Class A
mishaps per 100,000 flying hours.  A Class A mishap is one in which
there is either a fatality or damage to an aircraft exceeding
$500,000.</SUM>
