<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880629-0159"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Two US Air Force F-16 fighter jets on a training mission crashed and
exploded today near Bodenheim, Germany, less than two hours after
another F-16 crashed into the Black Forest.  One pilot was killed in
the crash.  The other ejected safely.  Both aircraft were assigned to
the 50th Tactical Fighter Wing at Hahn Air Base.  The planes crashed
near a populated area.  Fortunately, no one on the ground was injured.
The earlier crash was a plane from the 52nd Tactical Fighter Wing at
Spanghahlen Air Base.  That pilot ejected safely.  West German police
and military police have secured both crash sites.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880902-0062"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

A U.S. military F-16C crashed today in a remote area of Iwate
Prefecture (State) about 290 miles north of Tokyo.  The pilot,
Maj. Wyman E. Vanedoe, baled out safely and was taken by a Japanese
rescue helicopter to Misawa Air Base where he is listed in good
condition.  The aircraft from the 14th Tactical Fighter Squadron at
Misawa was on a routine training flight when it crashed.  About 50
F-16s are stationed at Misawa.  On March 22, 1987, another F-16
crashed in the Pacific Ocean off Misawa, 360 miles north of Tokyo.  In
that crash the pilot was also rescued.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0129"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

Today a Navy F-14 jet fighter plunged into the Atlantic off Hatteras,
NC.  One crewman is dead, the other missing.  The plane was engaged in
mock dogfight training when it crashed.  It was attached to Fighter
Squadron 143 at Oceana Naval Air Station in Virginia Beach, VA.  Also
today, an F-16A assigned to Hill Air Force Base's 388th Tactical
Fighter Wing crashed in northern Utah.  The pilot bailed out.  These
crashes followed Monday's crash of a Navy plane into a hangar at
Gillespie Field at El Cajon, CA, a densely populated area.  Five
people, including the two crewmen remain hospitalized.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881206-0114"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

A B-52 bomber, while practicing "touch-and-go landings", crashed and
burst into flames at 1:15 a.m. today at K.I. Sawyer AFB, Michigan.
The plane, normally equipped to carry nuclear bombs, had no weapons
aboard.  The eight crewmembers, suffering broken bones but no burns,
were taken to area hospitals.  Their conditions range from critical to
satisfactory.  The B-52 is the military's biggest bomber.  The last
one was commissioned in 1962.  The Air Force has recently had more
trouble with the B-52's successor aircraft, the B-1B.  Four have
crashed in the four years the plane has been flying, including two
crashes nine days apart in November.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881210-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

Saturday, a U.S. Air Force A-10 Thunderbolt II jet crashed into a
working-class neighborhood in the central West German city of
Remscheid killing six people and severely injuring seven.  Authorities
believe the accident will further erode the already sinking public
support for national defense programs.  West Germany, a staunch NATO
ally, is on the front lines of the East-West struggle.  Even before
this fatal crash, 12 major military aircraft accidents had killed 95
people this year alone in Germany's crowded skies, including 70 deaths
resulting from the crash at an air show at the U.S. base in Ramstein
in August.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

Today a U.S. Air Force A-10 attack jet crashed in Britain.  The pilot
ejected but his status is unknown.  This accident came two-weeks to
the day after an A-10 crashed in Remscheid, Germany killing five and
injuring dozens while another crashed in Tracey, Arizona, without
fatalities.  With more than 1.75 million flight hours, the A-10 is
statistically the safest fighter in the U.S. inventory.  It
experiences an accident rate of less than 4 Class A mishaps per
100,000 flying hours.  A Class A mishap is one in which there is
either a fatality or damage to an aircraft exceeding $500,000.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA103089-0070"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

On Sunday, a two-seat, T-2 Buckeye jet trainer crashed on the flight
deck of the aircraft carrier Lexington in the Gulf of Mexico killing
five people and injuring at least two.  The crash also did major
damage to two aircraft on the flight deck and minor damage to a third.
The T-2 was assigned to Training Squadron 19, Meridian, Mississippi.
Several fires caused by the crash were quickly brought under control.
The Navy, concerned that fuel cells aboard a jet might explode,
brought in a team of ordinance experts from Panama City.  The Navy
uses the 46-year-old Lexington exclusively for training.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900829-0120"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

A huge C-5A transport plane carrying materials for U.S. troops in
Saudi Arabia crashed just outside of Ramstein Air Base in Germany.
Thirteen of the seventeen crewmembers died.  The remaining four are
hospitalized in satisfactory condition.  Nine of those killed and one
of those injured are reservists with the 433rd Military Airlift Wing
from Kelly AFB, San Antonio.  The four others were stationed at
Ramstein or at nearby Hahn Air Base.  The plane was from the 60th
Military Airlift Squadron, Travis AFB, California and was en route to
Rhein-Mein Air Base near Frankfurt. This was the first C5-A crash in
fifteen years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901010-0036"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

A U.S. Air Force F-111 crashed today in Saudi Arabia killing both
crewmembers.  It was the fourth American aircraft to crash in three
days among those deployed to this Kingdom for Operation Desert Shield.
Eight Marines are missing following the crash of two helicopters on
Monday.  An Air Force F-4 reconnaissance jet also went down that day
killing both crewmembers.  The F-111 was attached to the 48th Tactical
Fighter Wing based at RAF Lakenheath Air Base in Britain, now deployed
to Turkey for Desert Shield.  The aircraft, an F model, is the latest
version of this 23 year-old swing-wing jet.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901012-0032"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

The estimated 700 Air Force "Desert Shield" warplanes are flying again
after being grounded for 24 hours following a rash of accidents.  Five
aircraft have been involved in fatal crashes in the gulf area since
the start of Desert Shield two months ago.  Also, a C-5 transport
plane crashed in West Germany while ferrying equipment to Saudi
Arabia.  Twenty other aircraft have also been involved in non-fatal
accidents in the gulf.  Fifteen of those were helicopters.  Air Force
officials state they have not found any common cause or contributing
factors.  Aircraft on operational missions near the Iraqi or Kuwait
borders were not grounded.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-4674"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="B">    

A U.S. Forces F-15 fighter taking off from Kadena Air Base, Okinawa on
a routine training mission crashed about 800 meters from the runway.
The crash site is within the air base's facilities.  The pilot safely
ejected without injuries.  The aircraft belonged to the 44th Fighter
Squadron of the 18th Wing.  The Defense Facilities Administration
Agency (DFAA) asked the command of the U.S. Forces in Japan (USFJ) to
take thorough measures for safe management of the U.S. military bases
on Okinawa and to conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of
the crash.  Investigation details will be made public.</SUM>
