
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910517-0205
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910517-0205.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed Chief Is Expected to Be Reappointed
   ---
   Greenspan Has Support of Wall Street,
   Bush and No Strong Rival
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/17/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<NS>
ECONOMIC NEWS, TRENDS, INDEXES, PROJECTIONS, ANALYSES (ECO)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For three years, top administration
officials have carped about the performance of Alan Greenspan
as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. But in the next two
months, they are likely to pay him the ultimate compliment by
recommending his reappointment to the powerful post.
   No decision has been made yet on the fate of Mr.
Greenspan, whose four-year term expires Aug. 11. But
administration officials familiar with early discussions on
the subject say any effort to depose the Fed chairman will
probably fail, for three reasons:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   -- Mr. Greenspan is well-regarded in financial markets. A
poll of financial decision-makers by Wall Street economist
Richard Hoey finds 76.5% favor his reappointment; that is
nearly as high as the 76.9% that favored Paul Volcker's
reappointment in May 1983. (Ironically, Mr. Greenspan was the
decision-makers' second choice in 1983 with 5.8% support; Mr.
Volcker is now the second choice, with 8.8% support.)
   -- While President Bush's top economic advisers have their
complaints about Mr. Greenspan, they are unaware of a
replacement they all could support. Former Fed Vice Chairman
Manuel Johnson is a favorite of Budget Director Richard
Darman, but has a testy relationship with Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady. Mr. Brady is friends with New York Fed
President Gerald Corrigan, but Mr. Corrigan -- a Volcker
protege -- would probably be vetoed by Mr. Darman or by the
President's top economic adviser, Michael Boskin.
   -- And despite the criticisms by his aides, President Bush
still considers Mr. Greenspan a friend and adviser. They have
known each other for years, and the president recently issued
a statement praising the "strong leadership" at the Fed. In
addition, Mr. Greenspan has strong support in the Senate,
which must confirm his reappointment.
   Mr. Greenspan's support in financial markets is especially
important. Past administrations have paid close attention to
market sentiment in choosing a Fed chief. A choice that is
poorly regarded by the financial community, they feared,
would cause market turmoil and possibly higher long-term
interest rates, as traders drove up rates out of fear that
the new chairman might fuel inflation. "The Fed chairman is
basically a Wall Street call," says David Jones of Aubrey G.
Lanston &amp; Co.
   Wall Street's influence was apparent in 1983, when
President Reagan's Treasury secretary, Donald Regan, mounted
a strident campaign to keep Mr. Volcker from being
reappointed. Most of the president's top advisers agreed with
Mr. Regan; but in the end, the president reappointed Mr.
Volcker anyway, to avoid financial turmoil.
   Mr. Greenspan, appointed by Mr. Reagan in August 1987,
hasn't made much of an impression on the general public. A
new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that 24% of
voters support his reappointment and 17% oppose it; but an
overwhelming majority of 59% don't have an opinion one way or
the other. Even in the midst of a recession, it is clear "the
public does not pay close attention to the Federal Reserve,"
say pollsters Robert Teeter and Peter Hart.
   Among professional economists, opinions are stronger, and
generally positive. James Tobin, Nobel prize-winning
economist at Yale University, criticizes the Fed chairman for
being too cautious in easing credit, but says: "I think Alan
has a lot of respect among academic economists as a good
applied numbers man, who knows the ins and outs of the
forecasting business." And at the Hoover Institution,
economist Milton Friedman, who also won a Nobel prize, says:
"I think on the whole the Fed has done extremely well since
he's taken over. It's hard for me to find a period this long
in which I have as little fault to find with the Fed."
   Mr. Greenspan draws high praise from academics for his
talents as a business and government economist rather than
for his academic performance. In fact, his major academic
work is obscure. Unlike most such works, Mr. Greenspan's 1977
doctoral dissertation, a collection of previously written
papers, isn't available. Librarians at New York University,
which awarded the Ph.D., say it is their policy to keep a
copy of every dissertation, but they are unable to locate Mr.
Greenspan's. University Microfilms in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
which keeps microfilmed copies of all doctoral dissertations,
also says it doesn't have a copy of the paper. Asked about
the dissertation, Fed spokesman Joseph Coyne said: "We do not
have a copy at the board, but the chairman has a copy in
storage in New York."
   At times, Mr. Greenspan has come under criticism both from
some of his Fed colleagues and from outsiders for being too
"political," and too willing to succumb to pressure from the
Bush administration. A recent harsh attack came from the
Economist magazine of London, which said the timing of last
month's decision to cut rates -- just two days after
Secretary Brady's plea to other industrialized nations for
global rate cuts -- was "a textbook example of how not to
conduct monetary policy" because it made the supposedly
independent Fed look like it was doing the Treasury's
bidding.
   Fed officials, however, say Mr. Greenspan had little
choice in the timing of the rate cut. He favored an earlier
rate cut but was unable to win the support of three of the
five Fed governors -- Wayne Angell, John LaWare and Edward
Kelley. On April 30, prodded by weak economic indicators as
well as phone calls from Secretary Brady, Mr. LaWare and Mr.
Kelley agreed to support a rate cut.
   Fed officials considered delaying the move so they
wouldn't seem to be succumbing to Mr. Brady's plea. But the
Treasury's quarterly sale of securities was to be announced
the next day. The Fed generally doesn't like to disrupt the
quarterly refunding operation by changing rates, so that
ruled out any action for another two weeks. Fed officials
decided to make their move right away, and take the
criticism.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

