
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910517-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910517-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch:
   A Good Man
   Who Resists
   Bad Pressures
   ----
   By Paul Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
05/17/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<MS>
FINANCIAL (FIN)
</MS>
<IN>
ALL BANKS, BANKING NEWS AND ISSUES (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<NS>
ECONOMIC NEWS, TRENDS, INDEXES, PROJECTIONS, ANALYSES (ECO)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   With a recession comes the blame, followed by the
blame-shifters.
   In Washington now, the shiftiest are passing the scapegoat
to the Federal Reserve, and especially its chairman, Alan
Greenspan. There have even been rumblings he won't be
reappointed for a second four-year term, beginning in August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Administration officials insist he's still the likeliest
choice, though the deal is never over until the thin man in
the Oval Office sings. The thin man likes Mr. Greenspan more
than is widely known. But the mere hint that he might be
replaced shows how little Washington has learned from 20
years of economic turmoil.
   Chairman Greenspan is actually President Bush's biggest
economic asset. Yet having pushed Mr. Greenspan out to sea to
steer the U.S. economy with only a single oar -- monetary
policy -- the kibitzers in Congress and the White House are
now telling him how to row. And if his form isn't perfect,
they jeer and then threaten to get a new oarsman.
   In other words, the same crowd that raised taxes three
months into a recession is now lecturing the one Washington
official who inspires confidence in financial markets. If Mr.
Bush wants to kill what everyone hopes is an incipient
recovery, he could certainly do it by dumping Mr. Greenspan.
   In a town where integrity breeds enemies, Mr. Greenspan
has shown too much character. He and his Fed allies haven't
laid down and played the usual game of "roll-the-Fed." Last
year's budget deal was supposed to open the money spigots, or
so the White House promised. But unlike the Bush Treasury,
the Greenspan Fed remembers the 1970s, when roll-the-Fed
produced inflationary booms followed by ever-nastier busts.
Enough of its members know that the Fed's main task is to
keep prices stable; stimulating economic growth is the job of
fiscal policy.
   Mr. Bush's economic advisers either don't understand this,
or won't admit it lest they accept blame for their own fiscal
abdication. It's so much easier to bash the Fed. Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady spent most of April lobbying for
easier money, even if a little more inflation had to go along
with it.
   The Japanese and Germans first turned him down, so he
leaned on the Fed. He even made phone calls to two Fed
governors to urge them to ease, as columnists Evans and Novak
report. The governors agreed, but for their own economic
reasons. Governor Wayne Angell dissented -- less for policy
reasons than to warn administration inflationists.
   Congress is a co-conspirator because it too is in fiscal
gridlock. Larry Lindsey, a White House aide and new nominee
to the Fed board, went for his Senate hearing last week and
allowed that the Fed could have eased more last year. The
inflation monster was still not appeased; every Banking
Committee senator but Florida Republican Connie Mack griped
or ranted for easier money. Mr. Greenspan is well liked on
the Hill, but Congress still wouldn't mind an easy-money
replacement.
   Even the corporate elite are scapegoat hunting. The
Business Council, composed of men who never object to higher
taxes on working stiffs, is whining about Mr. Greenspan. "The
Fed should ease more and bring interest rates down," says
James Robinson, the American Express chairman. Amex
shareholders can only hope Mr. Robinson knows more about
finance than he does about monetary policy.
   Mr. Greenspan's main defenders are the financial markets,
and ultimately the American middle class. Lawrence Kudlow,
the Bear Stearns economist, calls Fed performance under Mr.
Greenspan "uniformly constructive." Inflation has fallen from
the oil-price spikes in October to an annualized rate of less
than 3%.
   The Fed's real struggle has been to get long-term interest
rates, the main engine of a recovery, to fall too. That takes
art as well as science. The Fed can tinker with short-term
rates, but long-term rates carry an inflation premium and so
don't always fall in lock-step. They may even rise if
investors think the Fed is being rolled by the White House.
The fact that long-term rates rose after the last Fed easing,
on April 30, is one reason the Fed is believed not to have
eased again this week.
   It's this political factor that argues most for Mr.
Greenspan's reappointment. Any replacement will be seen as a
victory for the cause of roll-the-Fed. One possible
alternative, New York Federal Reserve Bank President Gerald
Corrigan, is widely seen as Mr. Brady's ally; if he's
nominated, invest in deutschmarks.
   A second possibility, current Fed governor and former
Treasury aide David Mullins, has shown signs of independence
but not yet enough for the big job. Former Fed vice chairman
Manuel Johnson is popular in the White House, but he is also
seen as highly political. In short, any replacement would
spend months or years winning credibility in financial
markets that Mr. Greenspan has already earned.
   The markets' political sensitivity is a signal that the
American middle class does not want its wealth robbed again
by a new inflation. If the recession persists longer than the
White House expects, the solution lies in a new fiscal
policy, such as a renewed campaign to cut capital-gains
taxes. (Mr. Greenspan recommends a zero capital-gains rate.)
It won't help Mr. Bush to fire the one economic-policy
official who's learned something from the past 20 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

