<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890302-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

Results of a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine
show that individuals infected with the AIDS virus, especially drug
users, are at increased risk of developing tuberculosis.  Only about
10 percent of the general populace who carry the tuberculosis bacteria
ever develop the disease, but the risk is much greater for those who
carry the latent tuberculosis bacteria and then contract AIDS. Not
only are they at greater risk themselves but, because tuberculosis is
more easily passed on than AIDs, they can transmit it to health care
workers, caseworkers and others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890511-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  
 
In May federal health officials announced that the rate of
tuberculosis for those in prison might be more than three times as
great as for those on the outside. In some states it is even
higher. In New Jersey, for example, it is 11 times
higher. Tuberculosis is a contagious disease, and those in close
contact with an active carrier of tuberculosis are at greater
risk. This is a big issue in prisons where there often is
overcrowding, poor circulation of air and an environment conducive to
the spread of contagious diseases.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900215-0031"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
  
As of 1990, about 22,000 cases of tuberculosis are being reported
annually, resulting in 1,700 deaths. Blacks are six times more likely
to have tuberculosis than are whites.  The disparity has long been
attributed to crowded housing and other conditions of poverty. A
recently published study concluded that blacks are innately more
susceptible to the disease, and that when living conditions were
comparable blacks were only twice as likely to contract the
disease. Specialists in the area were intrigued and impressed by the
study, but not all were willing to agree that biology, and not social
factors, was the major factor.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900217-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
     
At a time when there is some hope for the control of the AIDS
epidemic, we are seeing a large increase in the incidence of
tuberculosis. In New York City tuberculosis declined from 1960 to
1977, but by 1990, it has increased to the 1960 level. Many of the new
cases occurred when individuals who had AIDS and lost the ability to
suppress the latent tuberculosis that they might have carried for
years. The rise in the tuberculosis actually began in the late 1970s,
probably because of the large increase in the number of homeless, a
group at great risk.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900316-0028"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
        
The National Centers for Disease Control reported data on tuberculosis
showing 7,720 new cases in whites, 8,289 in blacks, 3,367 in Hispanics
and another 2,371 in Asians and Pacific Islanders. This represents a
reversal in a trend in which tuberculosis was declining. Much of the
regression is caused by the occurrence of tuberculosis in AIDA
patients. Tuberculosis was up 9.1 percent in blacks and 17.6 percent
in Hispanics, two groups with proportionally higher rates of
AIDS. More than 115,00 Americans were being treated for tuberculosis,
about 20,000 new patients and another 20,00 labeled high risk and in
preventive therapy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900521-0063"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
 
Health officials met in Boston for a four day World Conference on Lung
Health. In parts of Africa, where AIDS has been a health risk,
tuberculosis is running rampant. The combination of the two is
catastrophic. Within the United States there has been a five percent
increase in the number of reported cases, but the numbers vary widely
from state to state. No new cases were reported in Wyoming for all of
1989. Newark, New Jersey saw a 35 percent increase in tuberculosis,
and in New York City there has been a 150 percent increase among
blacks.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101690-0040"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
 
The World Health Organization, after the first global study of
tuberculosis in a decade, said the disease is now the worlds deadliest
infectious disease. The disease kills nearly three million a year,
most between the ages of 15 and 59. It is anticipated that the number
of deaths will rise sharply, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin
America and Southeast Asia. The increases already seen and those
anticipated are attributed in large measure to the connection between
AIDS and tuberculosis. At one time experts thought that tuberculosis
was on a path to extinction, and its now epidemic proportion is
disheartening.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0002"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
    
The New York City Health Commissioner said that the number of active
cases of tuberculosis in the city in 1990 totaled 3,520, an increase
of 38 percent over 1989. The Department said that it was instituting
new cure programs, and taking measures to improve tuberculosis
prevention programs. Children must be tested before entering school,
and homeless centers and substance-abuse centers are getting special
attention.  The greatest concentration of new cases was in the 25-44
age group. The number of men in the caseload was twice that the number
of women.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06276078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
   
A study covering the outbreak of tuberculosis in an unidentified
government building found that the number infected could have been cut
in half with better ventilation. Forty- seven workers in the building,
and 27 of them contacted tuberculosis, but many of the 27 did not work
in close proximity to the infected carrier. New office buildings,
built with an eye to lower heating and cooling costs, are sleek and
airtight. Stale air is recirculated with not enough intake of fresh
air, and such can be a factor in the spread of tuberculosis. Poor
ventilation is often present in homeless shelter, prisons and
hospitals.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d15"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-67721"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  
 
The number of cases of tuberculosis reported in Latvia during 1993 was
868, compared to 771 in 1992. The number of deaths increased at an
even greater rate of 41 percent. The State Tuberculosis and Lung
Center said that poor socioeconomic conditions could account for the
increase. Latvia does not have a law that would require mandatory
treatment for infectious cases of tuberculosis. The Department of
Health submitted a proposal for such a law but no action has been
taken. There are 11 state tuberculosis hospitals in Latvia that
provide free care for those with active cases.</SUM>
