<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880520-0264"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">       

Slovenia's Information Ministry confirmed today that federal military
commanders met in March to consider ways to deal with Slovenian
dissidents.  The military blamed the dissent on a foreign-backed
conspiracy.  Slovenia's police and Communist Party disagree.

Army commanders have been increasingly critical of Slovenia's leaders,
urging them to act firmly against political dissidents.

Mladina, the Socialist Youth Organization's publication, wrote
Slovenia's Communist Party that the army planned to arrest dissidents
and use force in any resulting protest. They added that the civilian
government was not notified of the army's intentions.

The plan, blocked by Slovenia's president, was denied by the
military.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891201-0100"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Serbia cut political and economic ties with Slovenia Friday, prompting
Slovenia to charge that Serbia is attempting to "oust us from
Yugoslavia."

Earlier, police had dispersed a pro-Serbian rally in Ljubljana,
Slovenia's capital, after Slovenia banned the event.  Serbia's break
with Slovenia was in reaction to that dispersal.

Slovenia's collective presidency protested to Serbia, asserting the
rally was an attempt to unseat their leaders.

The clash demonstrates major ideological differences: Slovenia
recognizes opposition groups, while Serbia permits only the Communist
Party.

Serbia calls on Yugoslavia's Slovenian president to resign, while
Delo, the major newspaper in Ljubljana, called the action a
"declaration of war."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900625-0160"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Small, liberal Slovenia plans to work on a constitution that will give
it full sovereignty within a Yugoslav confederation.  The proposal is
to be discussed by their parliament in mid-July, according to
President Milan Kucan.  Its approval is nearly certain.

A majority of Slovenes favor independence, according to a poll.

Yugoslavia's more conservative southern republics, particularly
Serbia, has accused Slovenia of separatist tendencies, which they
oppose; Slovenia, on the other hand, claims Serbia favors more federal
controls and tries to dominate the Yugoslav federation.

Croatia has joined Slovenia in its desire for a looser confederation
of Yugoslav states. Serbia opposes a confederation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900703-0040"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Lawmakers who replaced Communists in Slovenia's parliament proclaimed
its sovereignty yesterday without, however, calling for secession.

Their declaration provides for an independent legal system and
Slovenian control over armed forces stationed there.  The document
also mandates a new democratic constitution within a year.

The legislature unanimously voted for the declaration.

Slovenia, with a population of two million, defeated the Communists in
a free election last month, the first in 45 years.

Slovenia's leaders favor joining the European Community with or
without Yugoslavia's permission; Croatia, with its new right-center
government, echoes the demand.

Serbia's hard-line government strongly opposes the plan for
confederation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910628-0109"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Two days after Slovenia and Croatia declared independence, Yugoslav
troops battled Slovenian militia, surrounding the Ljubljana airport
and closing the borders with western nations.  The Slovene defense
minister acknowledged, "...Slovenia is at war."

Defense forces patrolled Ljubljana as government troops smashed
obstacles outside the city.  Further south, Croats battled minority
Serbs.  Near borders, civilians watched the fighting.

Slovenes, although shocked by the consequences of their declaration,
vowed with Croats to defend their independence.

The European Community, meanwhile, lobbied for a unified Yugoslavia,
while the United States urged a compromise solution.

Serbia insists on a strong federal government, while Slovenia and
Croatia have wanted a loose confederation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0123"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Slovenian's stocks, bonds and high spirits sank after their brief war
of independence from the Yugoslav Republic.  Bravado remains, however,
as Slovenians realize they can't turn back.  Still, they're not sure
how to go forward.

The European community has brokered a peace plan calling for three
months of negotiations with Yugoslavia.  However, Europeans are leery
of recognizing changed borders and Slovenes are disillusioned by this
perceived shunning by Europe and the United States.

Instead of the richest of the Balkans, they are now the poorest of
Europeans.

Their hopes of a prosperous future in the European Community hang on
expansion of trade and finding markets in the west.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06182091"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

The cease-fire agreed upon yesterday is faltering as federal troops,
acting outside government control, move to subjugate secessionist
Slovenia.

Serbia has blocked the election of Stipe Masic, a Croat, as
Yugoslavian president, a provision of a peace plan devised by Prime
Minister Marcovik, brokered by the European Community and accepted by
Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia.  Other provisions are for the army to
disengage and Slovenia and Croatia to delay their declarations of
independence.

Meanwhile, Slovenia refuses to be represented at a meeting of the
Yugoslav presidency, while Serbia forms a militia.

Slovenia has ruled out a return to Yugoslavia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-305"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Slovenian economic prospects would brighten if it could settle its
relations with the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), establish
relations with foreign creditors and join the IMF and World Bank.

Foreign exchange deposits by Slovenians and Croatians before
independence and transferred to NBY, have been frozen.  Slovenia's
largest bank, where funds were originally deposited, is urging
negotiation for their return but estimate it will take years.
Slovenes are also anxious to negotiate their share of the national
debt - about 1.8 billion dollars - and are committed to repayment.

Negotiations on economic issues and American recognition could speed
Slovenia's admission to the IMF and other financial
institutions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-6646"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

The war in the former Yugoslav republic is forcing Slovenia to look
for new partners in the European Community to compensate for lost
markets in the region.

Exports are low, at only 15% of previous figures, and industrial
production is down.  Although unemployment figures are higher,
inflation is lower thanks to a strong monetary policy.

Foreign automobile and other manufacturers assemble their products in
Slovenia and from there, distribute to other parts of Yugoslavia and
Europe.  Some Slovene products are exported to European community
countries, mainly Germany, Italy, France and Austria.

Parliament is now discussing a privatisation bill which will make
their enterprises more competitive.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-341"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Since declaring independence in 1991, Slovenia has made considerable
progress.  The gap between the new republic and the war-impoverished
former Yugoslavia has widened, but still, southern peace would be a
gain for Slovenia.

Independence has brought peace, privatisation and market reforms.
Slovenia no longer pays support to Yugoslavia or has bank deposits
frozen. Conversely, southern markets, tourism and cheap Serbian raw
materials have dried up, but despite the losses, Slovenia would not go
back.

Slovenia took in 70,000 refugees from Croatia at a cost of 250 million
dollars per year, but was finally forced to seal off the border.

Future goals: a fully-fledged, market-oriented, multi-party
parliamentary democracy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-30788"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="K">     

Yugoslav press reports of possible normalization of relations between
Slovenia and Yugoslavia, emanating from Slovenia, are viewed with
distrust by Yugoslavs, who also insist that a Slavenian delegation
arriving here is a business group.  Further rumors suggesting that the
businessmen might be checking the atmosphere for possible political
contacts has not been commented upon or denied.

Slovenia is said to be considering the exchange of diplomats and the
abolition of visa requirements for Yugoslav citizens, possibly to
adapt its policies to those of the European Union, which Slovenia
hopes to join.

Yugoslavia believes Slovenia feels isolated because of its
estrangement from Belgrade.</SUM>
