<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021689-0227"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

Ben Johnson's physician, Dr. Jamie Astaphan, said that Johnson took
banned steroid, stanzolol, once, four months before the Seoul
Olympics.  It caused him violent muscle spasms.  Astaphan said that
Johnson was not on the drug when he beat Carl Lewis in a world record
time of 9.79 seconds for 100 meters.  When asked how he could be
certain, Astaphan said that he did not have a constant check on
Johnson but doubted that he would return to a drug that caused him a
problem earlier.  Commission counsel said it was irresponsible to make
such statements outside the commission.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030789-0047"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Carl Lewis said he knew that Ben Johnson was taking
performance-enhancing drugs after their 100-meter final at the Seoul
Olympics.  Lewis believed that after all the preliminary heats that
Johnson would not have been able to perform as he did without taking
something.  Now Lewis has been implicated in an alleged sabotage of
Johnson's drug test.  A Canadian coach said that Johnson might have
drunk contaminated beer, given to aid in urinalysis, just before the
test.  Supposedly, an unidentified man who sat near the beer talked
with Lewis.  Lewis' attorney said the charge was ludicrous.  Johnson
had earlier taken drugs to induce growth of muscle tissue.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030889-0163"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
       
Canadian coach Charlie Francis who claimed that Ben Johnson's urine
sample at the Olympics was spiked with a banned substance worried that
Johnson might test positive.  Lynda Huey a physical therapist at the
Olympics said that Francis told her that Johnson was more afraid of
failing the drug test than he was of Carl Lewis.  Francis said that
Johnson was not taking the steroid stanozolol before the games and was
clean at the Olympics but Huey said that Francis must have had some
reason to think that Johnson might not pass the test.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA061589-0143"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
     
US track and field officials said that Johnson should be stripped of
his world record in the 100 meter dash.  Johnson testified at a
Canadian inquiry that he had been involved with illegal
performance-enhancing drugs for seven years and had injections before
he set the world record in the 1987 World Championship in Rome.  His
coach and physician had also testified at the inquiry.  Carl Lewis
said that while Johnson had not told the truth earlier, he was doing
so now and speaking out against drugs and should be allowed back in
the sport after he finishes his suspension.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880927-0089"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson left the Seoul Olympics stripped of his
Gold Medal after positive drug tests.  Neither a spiked drink nor a
switched sample as suggested by his coach could have accounted for the
levels of steroids found in his tests.  Johnson has been suspended
from international competition for two years and banned from Canada's
national team for life.  Prime Minister Mulroney called this a moment
of great sorrow for all Canadians.  US sprinter Carl Lewis hoped that
Johnson would straighten out his life and return to competition.
Lewis had said after the event that he couldn't understand how Johnson
ran so fast after looking tired in qualifying heats.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06084228"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Canadian sprint coach Charlie Francis testifying in 1988 in a Toronto
inquiry about use of performance-enhancing drugs made it plain that he
had given his athletes every steroid combination imaginable.  His star
pupil, Ben Johnson, ran 100 meters in 9.79 seconds in the Seoul
Olympics but lost his Gold Medal when he tested positive for drug use.
Francis said that steroid use permits an athlete to train harder but
not run faster.  Francis says steroid use is rampant.  After a two
year ban, Johnson is running again without Francis' coaching.  Francis
believes that without steroids, Johnson cannot be the fastest,
although still fast.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092490-0095"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Two years after his suspension for drug use at the Seoul Olympics,
sprinter Ben Johnson appeared before the press.  He was confident,
bragging, and promising big things to come.  If he returns to the
sport as a winner, all is forgiven said the assistant meet director
for the Hamilton Games.  Johnson expressed little doubt that he could
retain his 1988 form.  Johnson has passed four drug tests since his
suspension and has a new coach.  The Canadian Olympic Association is
expected to lift his ban.  Johnson will command high appearance fees
($60,000 in Stockholm) initially but later will be dependent on
performance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880927-0117"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">      
 
Canadians were shamed, angry, and saddened that sprinter Ben Johnson
had been stripped of his Olympic Gold Medal for using performance
enhancing drugs.  Canada's only Gold Medal was then awarded to second
place finisher Carl Lewis of the US in the 100 meter dash.  Canadian
government officials called the incident a "national embarrassment"
and the Sports Minister said Johnson would be banned for life from
Canada's National Team.  Some Canadian athletes and Johnson's family
expressed support for Johnson; some expressed sympathy, and others
said they had no respect for drug users.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06012224"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
Ben Johnson was second in his first race since the ban.  He lost to
Daron Council by .02 seconds in a 50 meter dash at the Hamilton
Spectator Games.  The brief race produced a record crowd of 17,050 and
nearly 500 journalists from 14 countries.  Johnson was satisfied with
his performance despite a poor start.  "I got caught in the blocks",
he said.  Johnson didn't appear as bulky in his upper body as before
but still weighed the same, 174 pounds, and could still bench press
365 pounds.  He said he was in good shape but not racing shape.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880928-0146"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
The stripping of Ben Johnson's Olympic Gold Medal has wounded Canadian
pride and shamed the nation.  Johnson's physician, George Astaphan,
and agent, Larry Heidebrect, insisted that Johnson had not taken
stanzolol.  Heidebrect said it is a tragedy, mistake, or sabotage.
Johnson a 26-year-old Jamaican transplant had waved the Canadian Flag
in triumph after the race and before the drug test.  There was
enormous exhilaration, then 72 hours later the roller coaster ride to
the bottom.  One Canadian newspaper said that Johnson tarnished the
reputation of Canada and let the people down.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881009-0072"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
       
Angella Issajenko, a Canadian Olympic sprinter, said that Ben Johnson
knowingly took steroids.  She said that Dr. Jamie Astaphan provided
the steroids with the knowledge of sprint coach Charlie Francis of the
Mazda Optimist Track to which both she and Johnson belong. Issajenko
acknowledged that she also took the steroids.  Johnson says he never
knowingly took illegal drugs and Astaphan said he has never
administered stanozolol, the banned drug found in the sprinter's urine
sample after the race.  Francis said the test result could only be
explained "by deliberate manipulation of the testing process".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891006-0029"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
 
Ben Johnson, the world-class sprinter knocked off track and field's
pedestal after testing positive for steroids now says that it's wrong
to cheat and bad for health.  Johnson said, "I got caught in Seoul.  I
lost my gold medal".  Some US Congressional Representatives are
presenting legislation to make anabolic steroids a controlled
substance similar to the designation given to cocaine and heroin.  The
legislators emphasized increasing abuse of steroids by athletes at all
levels.  Johnson told other athletes not to make the mistake that he
did urging them "to come forward, to come clean."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880928-0054"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Ben Johnson spent his homecoming without the gold medal and hero's
welcome.  On the flight from Seoul to New York he denied using drugs
even though Olympic officials said the test results were indisputable.
On his flight from New York to Canada, he spent the entire time in the
cockpit to avoid reporters.  A parade in his adopted home town in
Canada was canceled and promoters backed out of deals with the
sprinter.  Johnson's family and friends denied that he took steroids.
Johnson's fans were disappointed but hundreds of Canadians rallied to
the sprinter's side.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA0902789-0067"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
       
A year after the Seoul Olympics, Ben Johnson still remained in the
news.  When Johnson had arrived in Korea for the Olympics, he was
mobbed at the airport as if he were a Rock star.  After the race, the
Canadian contingent faced the International Olympic Committee to hear
of the use of stanzolol by Johnson.  Reporters scrambled for
interviews with other sprinters, other Canadian athletes, but Johnson
could not be found.  Johnson had denied using the steroid and another
Canadian sprinter, who also had used the drug, said that it was
standard procedure to deny use.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880927-0092"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
Ben Johnson who had elated Canadians after winning the 100 meter dash
drew an outpouring of emotion after being stripped of the medal for
drug use.  Prime Minister Brian Mulroney after the race had thanked
Johnson for the thrill of a lifetime but after the disqualification
said that it was a moment of great sorrow for all Canadians.  Sports
Minister Jean Charest said that Johnson would be banned for life from
Canada's National Team.  Some Canadian athletes expressed sympathy for
Johnson but others had no respect for an athlete who takes
drugs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d31"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051189-0216"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
 
Ben Johnson disqualified from the 1988 Summer Olympics suffered minor
injuries in a fight involving five men in a swank district of Toronto.
Johnson, driving his mothers' car, slowed for pedestrians who then
banged on the car.  Johnson got out to challenge the men one of whom
punched Johnson and kicked in the windshield of the car causing $700
damage.  Johnson chased and caught the man and held him until police
arrived.  Johnson's companions, other Canadian athletes, chased the
other suspects but they got away.  Johnson's lawyer said that the men
knew it was Johnson in the car.</SUM>
