<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910528-0127 WSJ910624-0157 WSJ911211-0079
WSJ920210-0112 WSJ910606-0061 WSJ910628-0089 WSJ920108-0155 WSJ910620-0161
WSJ910924-0116 WSJ920115-0046>
A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll confirmed what politicians of both
parties were sensitive to, that the American public was deeply
dissatisfied with the current health care system and was willing to
have the government consider a broad range of ideas: such as,
compelling all employers to offer health benefits, or even to adopting
a Canadian style government paid health system.  A driving force
behindthis call for action was the fact that about 40 million
Americans had no health insurance at all.

The Democrats , especially in the Senate, were ready to respond to
this call for action.  Three recent events: the Democratic senate
leader`s plan for universal health insurance, an AMA stastement that
American health care required substantial reform, and the General
Accounting Office`s endorsement of the Canadian medical insurance
model added impetus to this issue.  The fact that Americans spent
12.2% of their gross national product on medical care, while Canade
and Germany only spent 9% added fuel to the fire.  Senate Democrats
led by their leader George Mitchell moved to introduce legislation to
overhaul the nation`s health system by the end of 1991.  The Mitchell
plan required employers to offer health coverage to their employees or
contribute to a new public health insurance plan.  This contribution
was to be in the form of a payroll tax set by the Secretary of Health
and Human Services.  The tax would fund a new health insurance program
called Americare which would replace Medicaid.  Everyone not covered
by an employer plan would be covered by Americare, A national health
care expenditure board would negotiate spending limits for providers
and recipients.  In addition to the Mitchell plan, Senator Kerry
introduced a plan, at a gathering of Democratic presidential
candidates in Nashua, N.H..  One of the primary aspects of his plan
was a proposal to disconnect insurance coverage from a particular
employer thus providing mobility in job changes.

The Bush administration`s reaction to the Democratic proposals was
essentially negative.  Chief of Staff John Sununu complaind to the AMA
that the doctors were to ready to sign on to the Democratic plan;
Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan indicated that the
Bush administration was not likely to agree to a broad legislative
program to remake the health care system, but rather on ways to fine
tune the present system by cutting administrative costs.  Only Budget
Director Richard Darman argued that the administration should come up
with a comprehensive health care reform plan, which it later did.
</SUM>
