<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Mad cow disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), first
diagnosed in 1986, eats holes in the brains of its victims and is
similar to scrapie, a sheep disease in Britain since the 1700's.  BSE
is believed to have been transmitted through cattle feed containing
sheep by-products.  More than 10,000 cattle in Britain and Ireland
have been destroyed.  The U.S. and six other nations have banned
imports of cattle, embryos and semen from Britain, and the European
Community has proposed a ban on exports of most British cattle.
British agriculture officials insist transmission to humans is
remote.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042290-0104"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Mad cow disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), first
diagnosed in 1986, eats holes in the brains of its victims and is
similar to scrapie, a sheep disease in Britain since the 1700's.  BSE
is believed to have been transmitted through cattle feed containing
sheep by-products.  More than 10,000 cattle in Britain and Ireland
have been destroyed.  The U.S. and six other nations have banned
imports of cattle, embryos and semen from Britain, and the European
Community has proposed a ban on exports of most British cattle.
British agriculture officials insist transmission to humans is
remote.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA060490-0083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

"Mad cow" disease is threatening the $3.7 billion British beef
industry.  France and now West Germany have banned imports, citing
concern that the disease could be transmitted to humans.  In 1989,
France bought $264 million worth of Britain's beef exports; West
Germany $50 million worth.  The U.S. does not import British beef and
recently banned importation of live cattle.  Despite government
assurances that beef is safe, sales in Britain also have dropped, with
one quarter of the people no longer eating beef.  The disease has been
responsible for the death of 14,000 cattle and, recently, a Siamese
cat died of an identical disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910107-0139"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Researchers may be close to finding the molecular culprits behind
spongiform encephalopathy.  Scrapies is the form of the disease in
sheep and was transferred to cattle in the 1980s as the "mad cow
disease", and apparently to 11 British cats.  The human form is
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which is rare but has appeared in clusters
among sheep growers in Slovakia, New Guinean cannibal tribesmen, and
those carrying a newly identified genetic defect found in some eastern
Europeans.  Researchers believe the brains of the victims are
gummed-up by an altered brain protein, called a prion, that replicates
itself without genetic material.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-9310"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

"Mad cow disease" has been found in Britain's antelope population.
Three elands, three greater kudu, and an Arabian oryx have been
diagnosed with the disease since 1989, according to a British
government report.  The number of sheep with scrapies tripled from 348
cases in 1990 to 894 in 1991.  Since 1989, spongiform encephalopathy
cases were confirmed in 23 cats and 29 goats.  An agricultural
minister stressed that spongiform encephalopathies in species other
than cattle did not have to be reported.  He also said that scrapie
was considered transmissible both "maternally and horizontally."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-3883"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

British Government officials continue to deny a causal relationship
between bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), the "mad cow" disease,
and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD).  Cases of BSE continue to grow
even though officials said the disease would peak last year.  A
farmer, whose herd of dairy cows was diseased, died of CJD last year.
The government's monitor of CJD says there have been no cases among
butchers or vets and he believes the farmer's case was a coincidence.
Statistical analysis shows that the probability of one CJD case in
workers with infected cattle is 1 in 20.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8272"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Ten thousand animals in Britain have been killed by "mad cow" disease
(BSE), with almost 1,000 new cases a week.  Last week a second dairy
farmer died of Creutzfeldt- Jakob Disease (CJD).  One professor
believes exposure to BSE, not chance, caused the CJD.  Government
officials claim it is only a coincidence, because both diseases have
long incubation periods and patients who developed CJD from growth
hormones had different symptoms.  Annual cases of CJD in the UK are
growing.  BSE and CJD are caused by a prion, an abnormal form of a
protein normally present in the brain, which may arise spontaneously
or hereditarily or be transferred from another animal.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41815"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Zoo denizens and other animals are contracting spongiform
encephalopathy, and the kudu may be more susceptible that other
animals.  Five of eight kudu born since 1987 had the disease, but only
one could have eaten contaminated food.  The means of transmission to
the other four have not been determined.  The disease also has been
found in domestic cats, their larger zoo relatives, four other types
of wild antelopes, and minks in the United States.  The appearance of
this disease in breeding programs raises the fear that released
animals could transmit it to the wild.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-45908"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Next week, European Community health ministers will debate a German
threat to the Single Market free trade rule.  This is a proposal to
ban German importation of British beef to end potential transmission
to European livestock and stem fears of disease's transfer to humans.
The nearly ruined British cattle industry claims the fears are
baseless.  "Mad cow" disease, caused by feed containing offal from
sheep infected with scrapies, has infected over 120,000 British
cattle.  More than 8,000 were born after this feed was banned.
Theories of the cause of these cases include use of stored banned
food, vertical cow to calf transmission, and immune systems damaged by
pesticides.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1547"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

The German government will sponsor study at seven German universities
and research institutes to examine possible connections between bovine
spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) and two rare human
diseases--Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and Gerstmann Straussler syndrome.
Some scientists are concerned that BSE can be transmitted to humans
who consume tainted beef or medicine.  1n 1992 Germany imported 2,105
tons of British beef and veal.  A German proposal to ban these imports
will be discussed by European Union health ministers next week.  More
than 100,000 cattle have died in Britain, and BSE has killed 50 Swiss
and 2 German cattle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-575"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Tomorrow the health ministers in the European Union will discuss a
German proposal to ban all live cattle and beef exports for the UK
because of fears of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).  Brussels
is expected to back London in fighting this ban.  The European
Commission is also expected to take legal action if Bonn seeks a
unilateral ban.  The commission has stated that there is no evidence
of a link between BES and Creutzfeldt- Jakob Disease.  Current
restrictions include a ban on some bovine by-products for human
consumption, export of live cattle over 6 months old, and progeny of
BSE-affected cows, and certification on bone-in exports.</SUM>
