<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880520-0264"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

On March 25 federal military commanders planned to arrest
nonconformist journalists, writers and officials in Slovenia, the most
liberal of Yugoslavia's six republics, without notifying Slovenia's
civilian leadership. Military units would then crush demonstrations
protesting the arrests. The military council claims dissident
tendencies and articles in the news media are part of a foreign backed
conspiracy to overthrow the country's communist government. The
Slovenian Communist Party presidium, which frequently criticizes the
way the federal government deals with the country's economic and
social problems, and Slovenian police disagree with the conspiracy
claim. The plan was blocked after being reported by Slovenian security
organizations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891201-0100"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 
 
The Slovenian government banned a pro-Serbian rally in Lubljana on
Friday, calling it organized by Serbian politicians trying to oust the
Slovenian leadership, including Yugoslav President Janez Drnovsek, a
Slovene.  Serbia reacted by severing political and economic contacts
with Slovenia. The Slovenian government called the Serbian economic
boycott an attempt to oust Slovenia from Yugoslavia, which it would
never permit. 100 people gathered on Friday and 13 were
arrested. Economic decline has increased friction between Slovenia,
which advocates regional autonomy and legalized opposition groups, and
the communist leadership of Serbia, which insists on a centralized
federation with the Communist Party the only official party.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900625-0160"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
     
Slovenian president Milan Kucan endorsed a plan for a constitution
giving Slovenia full sovereignty and international-legal rights within
a new Yugoslav confederation.  Slovenia's parliament almost certainly
will approve the plan. Serbian politicians have frequently accused
Slovenia of harboring separatist tendencies and protecting its own
interests at the expense of federal goals. Slovenia says Serbia is
trying to politically and economically dominate the Yugoslav
federation by introducing greater federal control. In a poll last
March, 70% of Slovenia's 2 million inhabitants thought the region
would be better off outside the Yugoslav federation. Slovenia and
Croatia both held free elections this year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900703-0040"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
    
After a Slovenian coalition of center-right parties trounced reform
communists in the first free state elections held in Yugoslavia in 45
years, the new government unanimously proclaimed Slovenia's full
sovereignty. Slovenia would have an independent legal system, its own
intelligence services, and would control armed forces stationed within
the republic. A new democratic constitution would be adopted within
the next 12 months.  The new authorities say Slovenia will declare
full independence if remaining republics do not accept its proposals
for a confederation, vehemently opposed by Serbia. Monday's
proclamation may have been affected by a recent Serbian crackdown on
Kosovo autonomy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06182091"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
       
On Friday, Serbia, Slovenia and Croatia agreed to a
European-Community-brokered cease-fire that called for federal troops
in Slovenia to return to barracks, a three-month delay in carrying out
Slovenia's and Croatia's independence declarations, and installation
of the Croatian federal president.  Slovenian insistence on approval
by its parliament caused Serbian president Milosevic to delay the
installation. On Saturday the Yugoslav army ordered Slovenia to halt
attacks against federal forces or face decisive military action,
confirming fears that the army is acting outside government
control. Preparations for hostilities are widespread. Fighting killed
40 people. Deputy Secretary of State Eagleburger said the US might
consider recognizing Croatia and Slovenia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910628-0109"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Two days after Slovenia and Croatia seceded from Yugoslavia, the
federal government mobilized troops to regain control, beginning with
Austrian border crossings. The Slovenian militia, formed in the past
several months, is outmatched by the army's 180,000 troops, armored
vehicles and air force. Fighting across Slovenia resulted in 100 dead
and wounded. The West has lobbied for maintenance of the Yugoslav
state, threatening to withhold aid if the country breaks up. Serbia
fears losing the economic support of Slovenia and Croatia, who supply
most of Yugoslavia's wealth and have tired of the erosion of their
finances by the Serbian-dominated bureaucracy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0123"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
   
Slovenia's stocks shot up with its secession from Yugoslavia on June
25, but then slumped with unease about the future. The European
Community hesitates to recognize Slovenia and Croatia, for whom it
brokered a peace plan, for fear of encouraging its own
minorities. Slovenia is used to being considered prosperous and
Western and is disillusioned at feeling poor and shunned. Slovenia
needs to find new markets to replace Yugoslavian markets, which
purchased a quarter of Slovenia's goods. Exports need to double to
match European standards. A major motivation behind Slovenia's
independence was to free itself from the "Yugoslav risk" that
discouraged foreign investment.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-305"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
   
Before Slovenia declared independence, any foreign exchange deposits
which Yugoslav citizens deposited in Slovenian banks were transferred
to the former National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY).  Since independence,
these accounts have been frozen. Slovenian bank officials hope the
Slovenian government will guarantee these debts and open negotiations
with the NBY but think it will be years before people obtain their
money.  Settling relations with the NBY, establishing new relations
with foreign creditors, and getting recognition by the US would
improve Slovenia's economic prospects and speed its admission to the
IMF and World Bank. Slovenia will not renege on its allocated share of
the federal debt.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-6646"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
    
Following a 1990 embargo by Serbia, Slovenian exports to the former
Yugoslavia fell by 85%. Slovene officials say for capital inflows to
increase Slovenia must re-establish those trade links, which accounted
for 30% of Slovene exports. Slovenia is too small to attract large
amounts of foreign investment to foster growth. It recently signed
trade agreements with Croatia and Macedonia and is seeking new markets
among EC countries. Slovenian industrial production sharply dropped
and unemployment rose to 11%, but inflation fell to 5% thanks to the
Slovene central bank's strong monetary policy. Enterprises will need
to become more competitive after privatization, now being discussed by
Parliament.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-341"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
 
Slovenia was the richest of the former Yugoslav republics, with strong
tourism and roads connecting Europe to the Adriatic.  Since
independence, the UN embargo on trade with Serbia has meant loss of a
large market and an end to cheap Serbian raw materials.  Slovenia is
lowering wages and increasing productivity to compensate. It is
privatizing industries and implementing market reforms, determined to
become a market-oriented, multi-party, parliamentary
democracy. Relations with Croatia are good but complicated by several
issues. Slovenian leaders criticize the west for failing to intervene
earlier to stop Serbia's aggression against a UN-recognized state, and
for terming the Bosnian war civil or ethnic.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d45"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-30788"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
  
Slovenia sent a delegation to Belgrade to discuss normalization of
relations with Yugoslavia, including exchanging diplomatic
representatives and abolishing visa requirements for Yugoslav
citizens, but agreement probably won't come soon. The softening of the
Slovene attitude is an effort to adapt Slovene policy to that of the
European Union, which Slovenia wants to join.  Yugoslavia is
distrustful and resents Slovenia's attitude toward Kosovo and support
of arms for Bosnia. It expresses interest in normal relations but says
before they can take place, Slovenia must apologize for its rebuff of
Yugoslavia's offer to recognize Slovenia a year ago, and must end its
anti- Serbian campaign.</SUM>
