<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890722-0081"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

The Maine constitution used to guarantee the right to keep and bear
arms "for the common defense." In 1986 the Maine Supreme Court upheld
a gun violation by focusing on the "common defense" phrase. The
legislature, in response, enacted a constitutional amendment deleting
that language declaring "Every citizen has a right to keep and bear
arms, and this right shall never be questioned." The amendment was
approved by voters in November 1987. Now a county superior court
justice has ruled that even a convicted felon may own guns based on
the amendment's all-inclusive language. The Maine Attorney General has
announced that he will appeal the decision.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA073089-0118"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

The National Rifle Association (NRA), despite several setbacks in
recent years, is fighting back with a vengeance. The high pressure
lobbying and targeting of incumbents with whom they disagree is
particularly evident in Arizona and Florida. The target in Arizona is
U.S. Senator Dennis DeConcini (D-Ariz.), sponsor of a bill to ban the
sale of assault weapons. In Florida the NRA lobbies the state
legislature incessantly in opposition to restrictions on assault
weapons and other gun control measures. At the national level the NRA
President warns, "But look at what happened in Germany when ol' Hitler
did a good job in disarming the nation."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA100789-0007"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

The Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution states: "A well
regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State,
the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be
infringed." As with all ten amendments constituting the Bill of
Rights, this amendment specified an area in which the states are
protected from the federal government's making any laws. The Second
Amendment did not create a federally protected right of individuals
but was an express limitation on the powers of the national government
to limit or deny the states the right to have a state militia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021090-0005"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

Everyone agrees "the right of the people" as it appears elsewhere in
the Bill of Rights means a right for individual citizens. Why in the
case of the Second Amendment should it mean just a state's right to be
protected from the federal government? While the existence of an
individual right to own guns doesn't mean it is absolute, still a flat
ban on all handguns would be hard to justify under the
constitution. The all or nothing arguments of some gun nuts are not
convincing, but it is clear that the individual right to bear arms is
still there in the Constitution.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910208-0130"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

The Wall Street Journal received four letters on gun control in
response to an op-ed article. A life member of the NRA endorsed the
Brady Bill waiting period and criticized the NRA's work against
it. Three others argued: that criminals don't care about gun-control
laws and having a gun for self-protection reduces the serious effects
of crime; that the op-ed piece showed the real objective of the
waiting period is to eliminate handguns from our society while it's
the society, not the guns that are at fault; and that the individual
right to keep and bear arms is our ultimate defense against
tyranny.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911121-0136"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

Roy Innis, National Chair of the Congress of Racial Equality, sees it
as ironic that most black leaders are supporters of "the gun
control--really, prohibition--movement"--that "sprouted from the soil
of Roger B. Taney, the racist chief justice ...." Innis contends that
it was only after the emancipation of black slaves that racist
elements began agitating for restrictions on guns. Gun-control
legislation of the late 19th and early 20th centuries invidiously
targeted blacks. Even today only 2% of the handgun carry permits in
New York City are issued to blacks who live and work in high-crime
areas where they need protection.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911212-0080"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

Robert A. Goldwin says the Second Amendment provides a solid
constitutional basis for national gun-control legislation. Analyzing
debates in the First Congress, he educes the intended meaning of "the
right to bear arms" to be the right to serve in the militia, a
provision intended to keep Congress from establishing a standing army,
and instead to rely on state militias. Under the Militia Act of 1792
"every free able-bodied white male citizen" was required to enroll in
the militia and provide his own firearms. "In plain 1990's English, if
you want to own a gun, sign up with the National Guard."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920114-0145"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

One response to Robert Goldwin's article on gun control says Goldwin
identifies service in the militia as a necessary condition for bearing
arms while it is only a sufficient condition and confuses a right to
bear arms with what was a duty.

Other correspondents protest: "...I will give up my rifle when they
pry my cold dead fingers from it"; that Goldwin would strip away our
only sure defense of our homes; that Goldwin's agenda is "...removal
of all guns from American citizens...;" and that if modern National
Guardsmen were to follow Goldwin's advice, they would take home a
terrifying array of modern weaponry.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920211-0036"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

Robert Goldwin notes that critics of his recent gun-control article
show great passion but apparently don't read very well. The article
says nothing about removing all guns from American citizens. It
affirms that there is an undeniable right to own a gun. All of the
critics missed his point that gun owners should "sign up" with (not
"join") the National Guard as a means of providing some control over
who owns what kinds of weapons. The Second Amendment protects the
right of citizens to serve as defenders of the community, not the
personal uses of guns. It is no barrier to sensible gun control.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-5781"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="A">        

The U.S. Congress this week passed the Brady Bill, its first
significant gun- control law since 1968. Last week the Senate agreed
to a ban on assault weapons.  Perhaps the tide has changed in favor of
gun control. On the other hand, election results show that a strong
stand on gun control does not get candidates elected, and membership
in the National Rifle Association has soared in the last two
years. Although most of its members favor some degree of gun control
the NRA's hard core opposes all restraints on the sale of firearms,
arguing that firearms represent the best defense not only against
criminals but against tyranny.</SUM>
