<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-10026"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

Chris Patten, Hong Kong's new governor will arrive in the colony in
July and find that five years from its reversion to Chinese
sovereignty, Hong Kong is thriving.  Southern China's exceptional
economic expansion has come to dominate local business sentiment.
Hong Kong appears to have come to terms with its future ruler.  Hong
Kong's factory owners in the bordering Chinese province employ over 2
million workers.  Hong Kong supplies China with 40% of its foreign
exchange and is the source of 60% of foreign investment in China.
Politics is now in full public view.  On June 30, 1997, Hong Kong will
be welcomed into China. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT924-12193"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
  
Hong Kong Governor Patten pressed China to accept his proposals for
the Colony's political development or make alternatives.  No meeting
of the minds emerged after long discussions between Patten and Lu
Ping, director of China's office of Hong Kong and Macao affairs.  The
impasse is over the financing of a new airport project, stalled in the
Airport Committee of the Anglo-Chinese Joint Liaison Group.  China's
Prime Minister, Li Peng has refused to meet with Patten, who has in
the past suggested that he would be prepared to propose a faster pace
of democratic development in Hong Kong without China's
approval. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT924-11508"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
   
Deteriorating relations between Britain and China over Hong Kong's
political future has cast a pall over the colony's financial markets.
Governor Patten has proposed elections in 1994 and 1995 to allow for
greater democracy for the people and is supported by the people.
Patten has repeatedly indicated a go-it-alone possibility marking a
change in British policy toward Hong Kong and China, which had placed
priority on reaching agreement with Beijing.  China claims that
financing proposals from the Hong Kong government would put a heavy
financial burden on the post-1997 community.  China could sacrifice
the economic well-being of its people in response to a perceived
threat to its authority. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT924-4821"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
  
China challenged Britain's continued administration of Hong Kong when
it said that it would repudiate commercial agreements made by the
Colony not first agreed to by Beijing.  This was seen as China's
attempt to undermine confidence in Hong Kong's economy and defeat
Governor Patten's proposals.  In the absence of a British climb down
on democracy or defeat of Patten's proposals by the local legislature,
China's attacks could undermine business ventures in energy,
communications, and trade.  British and US businesses in Hong Kong
indicated that Beijing's threat would not impact investment decisions.
Share prices fell in response to the Chinese warning.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-2934"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
   
China threatened to ignore the results of democratic elections
proposed by Governor Patten for Hong Kong when China assumes control
in 1997.  But Lu Ping did say that China always stands for
co-operation, not confrontation.  These remarks relieved the Hong Kong
stock market which feared a more uncompromising stand.  Lu Ping
refrained from repeating economic threats made the previous year, but
it is unlikely that Britain will win China's agreement to complete the
Hong Kong airport project.  Britain's ambassador to China regretted
the personal attacks on Patten and said that decisions over Hong Kong
were taken by the British government as a whole.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-59402"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
  
Governor Patten has woven politics into the lives of the people of
Hong Kong. Though he was opposed, the Chinese paid politically for
that opposition.  Patten has modified his position and replaced
functional groups with statutory bodies and a four group electoral
committee and scaled back his demand for an electorate of 2.7 million
to one million.  Britain and China reopened negotiations under public
pressure.  His approach is Western; the Chinese see the superiority of
an all-powerful government.  He has emphasized cooperation on
administrative and environmental matters.  China wants Hong Kong
compliance with its orders.  Patten said that when Hong Kong made
decisions, things went well, but if consultation with China was
necessary, nothing worked.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-46297"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
A Chinese writer, Zhong Yan, says that since Chris Patten has become
governor of Hong Kong he has been going against China.  For this he
has been criticized and condemned by China, and people in Hong Kong
and Britain.  While Patten says that his responsibility toward the
citizens of Hong Kong should be first, the writer says that Patten is
more concerned about the colony than the people.  He also chides
Patten for saying that Hong Kong is the most important part of
Sino-British relations.  Zhong Yan believes that Patten has been
trying to preserve the colonial position in Hong Kong.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-2898"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
Chinese commentator Yu Yen rebukes Hong Kong Governor Patten for
continuing to refer to Hong Kong as an international asset and seeking
international support for his constitutional package.  Yu Yen says
that Patten's continued insistence on this designation denies China's
sovereignty over Hong Kong.  Yu Yen asserts that because the Chinese
government understands Hong Kong, it was able to advance the policy of
"one country, two systems" and allow Hong Kong a high degree of
autonomy.  Other cities, Tokyo, New York, and Paris, are international
cities but that does not change their sovereignty.  Britain, he
believes, is unwilling to return Hong Kong to China.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-1669"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
  
XINHUA correspondent Feng Xiuju declared that the Legislative
Council's passage of Hong Kong Governor Patten's partial electoral
bill was taken in disregard of persuasion by China and the aspirations
of Hong Kong citizens and are due to change in British policies toward
China.  The British side adopted double-faced tactics in negotiations.
The Basic Law had stipulated that the socialist system and would not
be practiced in Hong Kong and the previous capitalist system would
remain unchanged for 50 years.  Before the Chinese and British agree
on arrangements for the 1994/1995 elections, the bodies produced by
the British-Hong Kong Legislative Council cannot remain beyond
1997. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT944-5494"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
Hong Kong's passage from British Colony to a "special administrative
region" of China will be controversial.  The Chinese are beginning to
realize they need British cooperation and agreement has been reached
on funding for the airport development.  The biggest problem that Hong
Kong faces is the continuity of the civil service since the people are
still fearful of the Communist Party. Beijing has said it will dismiss
the Legislative Council when it assumes sovereignty and replace it
with a provisional legislature.  China's supporters in the colony
claim that Governor Patten's policy to repeal some of the more
repressive legislation will make it harder to govern.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-49756"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
   
Separate interviews were conducted on Hong Kong TV with Lu Ping,
director of the Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office of the State
Council of the PRC and with Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten.  Both
gentlemen tended to fault the other for lack of cooperation. Lu Ping
promotes the Preliminary Working Group and asserts that Patten has
closed the door on Hong Kong civil servants meeting with the PWG.
Patten says that the PWG is China's creation and that the Joint
Liaison Group is the treaty established forum.  Points of contention
have been the Hong Kong airport construction and the Kowloon-Canton
Railway.  </SUM>
