<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248 WSJ910702-0078 SJMN91-06255434 SJMN91-06184088
SJMN91-06184021 WSJ910709-0115 SJMN91-06290146 SJMN91-06184003
AP900306-0105 SJMN91-06246065"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Clarence Thomas was born in rural Georgia. From the age of seven until
he left for college he lived with his maternal grandparents in
Savannah. His grandfather taught him perseverance, discipline and the
necessity of hard work, values that have helped him succeed in a
hostile environment.

At Holy Cross College he was a vocal champion of liberal causes for
the first and only time in his life. He graduated in 1971 and entered
Yale Law School. By the time he received his law degree in 1974, he
had renounced liberalism as contrary to all his grandparents taught
him.

His work carried him through positions with a private firm, and in
federal and state governments. He was appointed as Chairman of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, a position he held for eight
years and that marked him as an opponent of quotas and affirmative
action.

Thomas had become a favorite in the Republican Party. In 1990
President Bush named him to be a federal appellate judge. He was
confirmed but there was considerable opposition. A year later Bush
nominated him to succeed Thurgood Marshall on the Supreme Court. After
contentious hearings the Senate confirmed him and he is now an
Associate Supreme Court Judge.  </SUM>
