<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900306-0105"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The Senate today confirmed Clarence Thomas as a judge to serve on the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. He was
confirmed by a voice vote. One of the most highly placed blacks in the
Reagan and Bush administrations, Thomas has been serving as the
Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Civil rights
leaders have been divided on his nomination. He is a critic of
affirmative action and quotas. Conservatives have praised Thomas'
service on the EEOC, but liberals have criticized him for his failure
to act on 15,000 age-discrimination cases.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184021"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
    
Speaking on national television on Monday, Clarence Thomas praised his
grandparents for teaching him to rely on himself and instilling the
values that allowed him to succeed in a hostile environment. Their
hard-working grandparents took in Clarence and his brother after their
own father deserted the family and their mother remarried. Clarence
was seven years old and his grandfather taught him perseverance,
discipline and the value of hard work. The grandfather enrolled him in
a segregated Catholic school in Savannah, and Thomas also credited the
nuns for reinforcing the discipline preached by his grandfather.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184088"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

President Bush nominated United States Court of Appeals Judge Clarence
Thomas to succeed Thurgood Marshall on the Supreme Court. An outspoken
conservative, Thomas, if confirmed, will succeed the court's first and
only black judge. Thomas was born on June 23, 1948, and has been an
appellate judge since June 1990. He graduated from Holy Cross in 1971,
and from Yale Law School in 1974. His career has included stints as
assistant Attorney for Missouri, as legislative assistant to Senator
Danforth, as an Assistant Secretary of Education, and as Chairman of
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184003"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

When President Bush nominated Clarence Thomas to become the second
black to serve on the Supreme Court, he named a man whose views are at
the opposite end of the spectrum from those of Thurgood Marshall, the
man he would succeed. Thomas was only five years old when Marshall,
the first black to serve, was appointed to the court.  Marshall helped
to create the world in which Thomas grew up. Thomas opposes
affirmative action and quotas, and his views on other issues dear to
liberals are largely unknown. Some Democrats have said they will be
diligent in drawing out Thomas' views on controversial issues.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
   
A few weeks before his nomination to the Supreme Court, Clarence
Thomas outlined his reasons for opposing quotas and affirmative
action. He said that his spirit of independence and belief that that
everyone should take care of himself were developed in his
hardscrabble childhood. He was born near Savannah to an impoverished
family. His grandparents raised him after his father deserted the
family. The ideals preached by his grandfather were reinforced by a
disciplined Catholic education. During his years at Holy Cross College
he embraced some liberal views, but he soon renounced them as contrary
to his grandfather's values.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Clarence Thomas was born 43 years ago in a rural area near
Savannah. His father deserted the family, and Clarence was raised by
his maternal grandparents. Under the direction of his grandfather and
the nuns who schooled him, he learned sharecropping, scholarship, and
hard labor. He was later impressed by Thomas Sowell, a prominent black
economist, who advised blacks to pursue economic independence rather
than political agitation. He developed into a hybrid product of harsh
Southern history and baby-boomer ambition, and a proponent of strength
over dependence. His black conservatism made him a favorite of
Republican administrations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06246065"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

As the date of his confirmation hearings approach, Clarence Thomas'
life and record are being examined, and even his close friends have
trouble explaining why Thomas has become a minority within a
minority. In his college years Thomas shared the liberal views of many
bright young blacks born into a segregated America after the 1964
Civil Rights Act erased the overt signs of segregation. As an
undergraduate at Holy Cross, he marched in protests but he became more
conservative as he studied law at Yale. After Yale he worked for a
Republican State Attorney General, and by then he was expressing
conservative viewpoints.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910709-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The upcoming Senate hearings on Clarence Thomas' qualifications and
fitness to serve on the Supreme Court will be a lesson for
everyone. His life will be viewed as living proof that a black man
from the impoverished South can rise to the heights of the Supreme
Court. His supporters say that he is an example of one who relied on
the love of his extended family, and worked hard in rising from a
humble beginning to a position of prominence. It is anticipated that
his detractors will acknowledge that, but will maintain that he was
helped along by the same government aid that he would deny to
others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06255434"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
  
Virginia Thomas, wife of the nominee to the Supreme Court, has come
under scrutiny and is the target of some criticism. Critics see her as
a woman with strong opinions on issues likely to come before the
court. She has represented the conservative views in her work on the
staff of a Republican Congressman. She and the nominee have said that
women and blacks are hindered, rather than helped, by affirmative
action. Virginia Thomas is a white woman, and some prominent blacks
outside government view this as Thomas' rejection of the black
community.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06290146"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
  
The town of Pinpoint, Georgia celebrated Clarence Thomas' elevation to
the Supreme Court. When yesterday's climactic votes ensured that
Thomas had survived the Senate ordeal, his mother, Leona Williams,
literally jumped for joy. She immediately called her son to give him
her love. A handwritten sign that had already been erected proclaimed
that Pinpoint, Georgia was the home of Judge Clarence Thomas. The
community gathered in front of the town's only big screen television,
and applauded and sang when the victory of the native son was
certain.</SUM>
