
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890509-0228 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-05-09-89 1230EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>a a BC-EXP--Trans-Antarctica Adv11   05-09 1229</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-EXP--Trans-Antarctica, Adv 11,1260</SECOND>
<HEAD>$adv11</HEAD>
<HEAD>For release Thursday, May 11, and thereafter</HEAD>
<HEAD>Explorers From Six Countries Plan Trek Across Antarctica</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARJORIE ANDERS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   On the untouched expanse of the Arctic icecap it seemed a mirage
_ preposterous, incredible: ski tracks.
   Will Steger, leading the first unsupported dogsled trek to the
North Pole since Adm. Robert Peary's, saw the unmistakable evidence
of cross-country skis. He knew they could only be those of
Jean-Louis Etienne, a Frenchman who was about to become the first
man to ski alone to the pole.
   It was in April 1986, in a tent on the monotonous frozen
landscape, that the two adventurers sipped tea and dreamed of their
next quest: a multinational trek across Antarctica. After reaching
their destination, they began planning the Trans-Antarctica
Expedition, which is to begin Aug. 1.
   Their previous exploits were for the sheer joy of pitting man
against nature. This one would do that and more: draw attention to
threats against nature and to the need for international
cooperation in protecting Antarctica.
   Steger and Etienne enlisted scientists and explorers from the
Soviet Union, China, Japan and Great Britain for a seven-month,
4,000-mile trip. Others have crossed Antarctica on snowmobiles and
giant snow tractors, but this will be the first unmechanized
attempt.
   Victor Boyarsky of the Soviet Arctic and Antarctic Research
Institute, a popular explorer and veteran of polar travel, is a
co-leader. The other members of the team are glaciologist Qin Dahe
of China; Geoff Somers, who has spent 42 months in Antarctica with
the British Antarctic Survey; and Keizo Funatsu of Japan, a former
economist who turned to dog-sledding and adventure.
   Somers will plot the trek's course; Funatsu is in charge of the
dogs.
   Steger, who in the past has picked his own teams, says he is
honored that the Soviet Union and China will be sending official
representatives. The four members from Western nations are not
formally backed by their governments.
   Steger recalled that when he asked if Boyarsky spoke English, a
Soviet official replied: ``In one year, he will speak English very
well.''
   ``A real interesting diplomatic challenge,'' Steger called it.
   Other international support includes the use of China's Great
Wall Station on King George Island as a staging point. New
Zealanders stationed at the Scott McArdle base donated 12 dogs
whose lineage can be traced to dogs owned by polar explorer Richard
Byrd. The Soviet Union provided an icebreaker to transport 15 tons
of food for the men and 36 dogs; the provisions were cached on the
route in November. The USSR also plans to send a military cargo
plane to pick up the team from its rendezvous at Steger's Minnesota
camp; the U.S. State Department, while not officially sanctioning
the trek, is expected to let the plane land.
   After refueling in Cuba, the team will fly to the Great Wall
Base, about 600 miles south of the tip of South America. The
expedition, which will set out in the middle of the Austral winter,
will at first follow known landmarks.
   ``We'll have maps for the first 1,500 miles. The last 2,500
miles there is virtually nothing. It's flat. There's nothing to
map,'' Steger said.
   They'll cross the Ellsworth Mountains and skirt Mt. Vinson, the
continent's highest spot at 16,860 feet. They'll visit three
American bases _ Palmer, Siple and Amundsen-Scott at the South
Pole, where they plan to celebrate Christmas.
   The next dot of civilization they'll aim for is the Soviet base
at Vostok, near the magnetic south pole. Vostok, the coldest place
on Earth, will serve as a base for a French documentary film crew
that will travel with the expedition for three weeks, and for the
team's pilot.
   By March, the trekkers should reach the Soviet base of Mirnyy on
the east coast, also known as Queen Mary Coast, ending the longest
possible traverse.
   They'll be picked up by the expedition ship, built in France
with a special aluminum hull designed to pop up and settle intact
on top of the ice rather than be trapped and crushed.
   So far, about 45 nations have signed television contracts with
the expedition. ABC has bought exclusive U.S. TV rights. ``We want
the world to know much, much more about Antarctica after our
expedition than it did before we set out,'' Steger said.
   The continent is roughly the shape of a bottle cap. It rises
sharply at the perimeter, then flattens out in a vast, high plateau
at an average elevation of 9,500 feet. Antarctica's 5.4 million
square miles is more than China and India combined. It has no
indigenous people, and wildlife is confined to the coast.
   A treaty signed in 1959 by a dozen nations, with additional
signatories in subsequent years, put all territorial claims on
Antarctica on hold, banned military activity and established
freedom of scientific inquiry.
   But many countries now have designs on the land for strategic,
political and even economic reasons _ some expect to find oil, coal
and mineral deposits under the ice. Some want to see the continent
cut into pie-shaped wedges, but Steger wants the people of the
world to demand that it be protected, intact.
   ``It sounds like a very lofty goal, but Antarctica is a going to
play a very important role in the future of the planet,'' he said.
   Planetary warming of just a few degrees could melt the polar ice
caps, raising sea level and flooding coastal areas, but Steger said
it's simplistic to worry about submerged cities. With 85 percent of
the planet's fresh water stored in the snow and ice of Antarctica,
a thaw would reduce the salinity of the oceans, change ocean
currents and wreak havoc with weather patterns.
   The other environmental nightmare awakening interest in
Antarctica is the discovery of a giant hole in the ozone layer
directly over the continent. Ozone screens the planet from excess
ultraviolet radiation.
   Scientists predict continued ozone depletion will increase skin
cancer, but such thinking is ``myopic,'' Steger said. Most
significantly, increased solar radiation could disrupt the
reproduction cycles of plankton, the microscopic oceanic plants and
animals that are the basis of the global food chain.
   These ominous changes are most apparent in Antarctica, making it
``like a canary in a mine,'' Steger said.
   The team will be under the ozone hole for about 40 days and 500
miles as they cross a 13,000-foot high plateau known as the Area of
Inaccessibility. It's the worst possible place on earth for
ultraviolet exposure.
   The team will carry a monitor and Boyarsky will record ozone
levels at regular intervals, the first cross-section of ozone
across the continent.
   Qin will take snow and ice samples all the way across
Antarctica, recording temperatures and oxygen content for a
geological history of the icecap.
   Etienne, a physician, will monitor cholesterol levels of the
team members, who will rely on the high-fat diet typical of
cultures in cold regions.
   But the experiments that can be done along the way are limited
by time and weight. The trekkers plan to travel 30 miles a day on
cross-country skis, and the three dogsleds can carry no more than
900 pounds of gear.
   Steger admits they won't attempt ``pure science'' but he hopes
the findings will contribute to the knowledge of this frontier.
``We need international cooperation. Solutions to environmental
problems must be global.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for May 11</NOTE>
</DOC>

