
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910628-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910628-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Voters, Sick of the Current Health-Care System,
   Want Federal Government to Prescribe Remedy
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/28/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<MS>
FINANCIAL (FIN)
CONSUMER NON-CYCLICAL (NCY)
</MS>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Voters are deeply dissatisfied with the
current health-care system and say it is up to the federal
government to do something about it, according to a new Wall
Street Journal/NBC News poll.
   The nationwide poll found voters willing to embrace a
broad range of possible solutions to the problem, including
compelling all employers to extend health benefits, imposing
a tax increase if it would address the problem of
skyrocketing medical costs, and even adopting a
Canadian-style, government-paid health system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The poll of 1,006 registered voters makes clear that they
view health care as one of the country's most urgent domestic
concerns. Given a list of six pressing national issues, four
in 10 say health is either the first or second most important
in terms of needing attention from the government right now.
By comparison, the need to improve the economy was also cited
by four in 10; education, drugs and crime, homelessness and
the environment were all farther down the list.
   "Americans clearly have an activist agenda when it comes
to health care," say pollsters Peter Hart, a Democrat, and
Robert Teeter, a Republican, who jointly conducted the survey
for the Journal and NBC. "They are tired of the status quo,
and they are seeking to break out of the mold."
   A 55% majority believes the biggest problem with the
current health-care system is its high cost; 32% say the No.
1 problem is the number of uninsured Americans. On the
question of who is most responsible for driving up health
costs, insurance companies, doctors and hospitals are the
most frequently cited culprits.
   But if they don't blame the government for the problem,
far and away most voters say it's the government's
responsibility to solve it. In the poll, 51% say it's
primarily up to the government, while 18% say insurers should
take the lead, 9% say doctors and 7% say hospitals. One mark
of how strongly Americans feel on the issue is that even big
pluralities of Republicans and conservatives think the
health-cost problem is the government's to fix.
   Still, the widespread concern about the issue is tempered
with a dose of individual self-interest: Voters seem most
willing to entertain solutions that promise to extend
benefits for everyone and are less enthusiastic about
solutions that focus mainly on the currently uninsured.
   For example, by 69% to 28%, voters support guaranteeing
everyone the best health care available even if it takes a
tax increase to pay for it. But they are almost evenly split
on whether they would pay more in taxes or premiums in order
to insure that people who aren't currently insured would have
coverage; 47% would be willing to pay more, 48% wouldn't.
   As to what form governmental action would take, the
Journal/NBC poll indicates voters have largely open minds.
For instance, by a better than 2-to-1 margin, they would
strongly support requiring all employers, regardless of size,
to provide health insurance for their employees. So broad is
the consensus on this point that 59% of Republicans agree
with the idea (compared with 77% of Democrats), as well as
62% of conservatives and 53% of professionals and executives.
   But the voters say they would also support an even more
far-reaching change: adoption of a universal, government-paid
health-care system, such as Canada's. In the poll, 69% of
voters -- including 60% of conservatives and 62% of people
with household incomes of more than $50,000 -- back such a
system, while 20% are opposed.
   Despite the broad public consensus about the health-care
problem, some differences do exist. Republicans and
independents are more intensely worried about rising health
costs; Democrats are somewhat more likely to be concerned
about the uninsured. And, although the overall numbers were
small, blacks in the poll were twice as likely as whites to
complain of the quality of health care and the difficulties
of getting access to it.
   Given the intense public feeling about the health-care
system, it isn't surprising that both the Bush administration
and the Congress are grappling with the issue. Still, there
is nothing like a consensus in Washington on what needs to be
done; Democrats argue that the Republicans have been too slow
to address the problem, while Republicans maintain that
anything the Democrats come up with would be too costly.
   In the meantime, President Bush over the past two years
has appointed two task forces to study health-care issues,
neither of which has made a report. And Congress is preparing
major legislation designed to extend health-care benefits and
to control costs.
   Another barrier to a comprehensive plan is the lack of
consensus even within the administration on measures that
would be both effective and politically acceptable. Health
and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan, whose department
is heading up one task force, is said to be particularly
determined to present only proposals that meet both those
criteria.
   Mr. Sullivan told Congress earlier this spring that "the
two primary health dilemmas of expanding health-care access
and containing health-care costs simply do not lend
themselves to easy solutions . . . while many reform schemes
have been offered, I am convinced that there are currently no
comprehensive reform plans that represent a clear improvement
over our present system."
   Meanwhile, Mr. Sullivan has been stressing a theme of
personal responsibility, urging Americans to pay attention to
problems they can control through diet, exercise, healthful
living and attentiveness to health-care costs.
   The poll indicates that Americans are receptive to at
least some emphasis on individual responsibility. Seven in 10
of those surveyed support requiring everyone to pay some
share of their medical expenses as an incentive to use the
health-care system less and thus hold down costs.
   But many voters seem to draw the line at attempts to
ration health care: By 52% to 42%, they say they are
unwilling to limit the types of tests and procedures
available under insurance and government programs. Quality of
care, observe pollsters Hart and Teeter, is "one area where
Americans will not compromise to control costs."
   ---
                       Sick System
                                                                                                       

   `Which one of the following is the most important
health-care issue facing the country at the present time?'
                                                                                                       

   High cost of health care                          55%
   People not covered by any health insurance        32
   Hard-to-get access to high-quality health care     5
   Quality of health care                             4
   All                                                3
                                                                                                       

   `Which one of the following do you think has the primary
responsibility to solve the high cost of health care?'
                                                                                                       

   The federal government                            51%
   Health-insurance companies                        18
   Doctors                                            9
   Hospitals                                          7
   Businesses and unions                              7
   All                                                5
                                                                                                       

   THE WALL STREET JOURNAL/NBC NEWS POLL
</TEXT>
</DOC>

