
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910528-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910528-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Democrats Ready Legislation
   To Overhaul the Health-Care System
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/28/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<MS>
FINANCIAL (FIN)
CONSUMER NON-CYCLICAL (NCY)
</MS>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<NS>
LABOR, PERSONNEL ISSUES, TRENDS, MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES (LAB)
TAXES, ISSUES, LEGISLATION, ASSISTANCE, EVASION (TAX)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats, seeking political mileage
from an issue of rising domestic concern, are preparing to
introduce legislation to overhaul the health-care system by
limiting spending and providing insurance for everybody.
   After nearly two years of negotiating with labor, medical,
business and consumer groups, Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell (D., Maine) plans to offer a bill next month that
would require employers either to provide a core package of
employee health benefits or pay a tax to help finance
coverage for the uninsured.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To rein in soaring health care costs, the bill also would
establish an independent board appointed by the president to
set annual targets for health-care spending, according to
congressional aides and others familiar with the plan. The
panel, called the National Health Care Expenditure Board,
would negotiate spending limits with both health-care
providers and recipients of doctor, hospital and other
health-care services. Under the plan, however, compliance
with the targets would be voluntary.
   The cost of the plan, which also includes tax breaks for
small businesses and self-employed people to buy health
insurance, is estimated to be $5 billion the first year and
to rise to more than $11 billion in the fifth year, when the
plan would be fully implemented, according to a congressional
aide familiar with the proposal.
   The Democrats want to make health care a critical issue in
next year's presidential campaign. The U.S. spent about $660
billion on health care last year, more than 12% of the
nation's gross national product and more than double the
health expenditures in the early 1980s. The spiraling prices
forced employers either to cut back on health benefits or to
require employees to contribute greater portions of wages to
health-insurance premiums.
   At the same time, more than 30 million Americans lack
health insurance of any kind. And the recession has added to
their ranks as hundreds of thousands of laid-off workers have
lost their health benefits along with their jobs.
   An administration task force has been studying possible
health-care solutions, but has yet to offer a comprehensive
proposal. Administration officials say they hope to put
together a plan to counter the Democrats during the
presidential campaign.
   The Senate Democratic bill -- written primarily by Mr.
Mitchell as well as Sens. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), John
Rockefeller (D., W.Va.) and Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) -- is
unlikely to be enacted in its current form. But it is
expected to set the tone for and influence the course of the
healthcare reform debate.
   A spate of reform legislation has already been introduced
in Congress. In addition, Senate Republicans are trying to
reach a consensus on their own health-care proposal and the
House Democratic leadership is also working on a plan.
   While the Senate Democratic bill is clearly a move to
appropriate a powerful issue for their own political gain,
congressional aides contend that Mr. Mitchell is committed to
health-care reform and that he has tried to put together a
workable piece of legislation, making concessions to a number
of groups.
   Other details of the Senate Democratic proposal include:
   -- Replacing Medicaid, the federal and state health
insurance program for the poor, with a joint state and
federal program called AmeriCare that would offer a core
health package to anyone who doesn't have employer-provided
insurance. AmeriCare beneficiaries would be charged a premium
based on income; people with low incomes wouldn't have to pay
for coverage.
   -- Financing AmeriCare with a tax on the payrolls of
employers who don't provide health insurance. The levy would
probably be about 8% of payrolls, according to people
familiar with the proposal.
   -- Allowing a two-year grace period before new businesses
would have to comply with the so-called pay or play mandate.
   -- Special allowances for small businesses. Companies with
less than 25 employees wouldn't have to comply for five
years. Firms with fewer than 25 employees also would receive
tax breaks to help buy employee health coverage. Moreover,
the bill includes measures to make it easier and cheaper for
small businesses to buy health insurance.
   -- Expanding the federal community health center system to
serve rural and inner-city Americans.
   -- Encouraging states to set up consortiums of insurance
companies, consumers, physicians and other care providers to
negotiate rates to hold down spending to targeted levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

