
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910606-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910606-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Drive to Reform
   Health System
   Begins in Senate
   ---
   Democratic Bill Introduced;
   Mitchell Vows Passage
   Of Legislation by 1993
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/06/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<MS>
FINANCIAL (FIN)
CONSUMER NON-CYCLICAL (NCY)
</MS>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<NS>
LABOR, PERSONNEL ISSUES, TRENDS, MANAGEMENT TECHNIQUES (LAB)
TAXES, ISSUES, LEGISLATION, ASSISTANCE, EVASION (TAX)
</NS>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell vowed
to pass legislation overhauling the nation's health system by
the end of next year, as Senate Democrats submitted their
long-awaited health-care bill.
   Mr. Mitchell's remarks are the latest sign that although a
huge legislative battle lies ahead, enacting significant
changes to the U.S. health system is more likely than ever.
The White House, which has been virtually silent in the
crescendoing health-care debate, indicated earlier this week
that it was preparing to enter the discussion, although
apparently on a slower timetable than the Democrats. Budget
Director Richard Darman told reporters Monday that the Bush
administration would probably come up with a broad health
proposal before the 1992 election.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While the Democratic bill is unlikely to be passed in its
current form, it carries the legislative debate to a new
level. With the majority leader throwing his political weight
behind it, the package is being viewed far more seriously
than any other health-care legislation.
   The proposal, which would require employers to offer
health coverage to their employees or contribute to a new
public health-insurance plan, was welcomed yesterday by
numerous disparate and often warring groups as a workable
starting point for overhauling the health-care system,
although some demanded substantial changes.
   Even Republican Sen. David Durenberger of Minnesota, who
is active on health-care issues, said, "It's good to have a
comprehensive health agenda out there." While he objected to
some parts of the bill, Mr. Durenberger said that "when you
don't have a good alternative, this is a good place to
start."
   At a news conference at the Capitol, Mr. Mitchell and the
other principal authors of the bill, Sens. Edward Kennedy
(D., Mass.), Donald Reigle (D., Mich) and John Rockefeller
(D., W.Va.), denied they were trying to use an issue of
mounting domestic concern for their political advantage.
   "It is our intention to make law, not make a political
statement," Mr. Mitchell said.
   But politics was clearly in the air. Sen. Rockefeller, who
is considering a presidential bid focusing on health-care
issues, told of a Republican woman from Arlington, Wash.,
who, as her husband was changing jobs, was diagnosed with
Grave's Disease, the same ailment that afflicts President and
Mrs. Bush. Because of her "pre-existing condition," the
health plan provided by his employer wouldn't cover her.
   A consensus is growing in Congress and across the country
that the U.S. health-care system is ailing. Spending on
health care rose to about $670 billion last year, or more
than 12% of the gross national product. Per capita, the U.S.
spent far more on health than any other country. But at the
same time, more than 30 million people, many of whom have
full-time jobs, don't have health insurance because they or
their employers can't afford it.
   But though the Democrats want to make health care a big
issue, party members diverge on solutions. Some favor a
Canadian-style approach in which the government guarantees
health coverage for all and regulates hospital budgets and
physicians' fees.
   Meanwhile, Senate Republicans are preparing to introduce
their own bill. And Rhode Island Sen. John Chafee, chairman
of the Republican health task force, said that "from the
Republican effort joined with the Democratic effort, I think
we can get something done." However, he denounced the idea of
requiring employers to provide coverage.
   Under Mr. Mitchell's plan, details of which were widely
reported in recent weeks, any business that doesn't provide a
core health-benefits package would have to pay a payroll tax
to finance coverage for the uninsured. The secretary of
Health and Human Services would determine the tax rate.
   The tax would fund a new government health-insurance
program called AmeriCare, which would replace the current
Medicaid program for the poor. AmeriCare would insure anyone
not covered by an employer plan. People under the poverty
line wouldn't have to pay a premium; those above would pay a
fee based on their income.
   To curb health costs, the bill would set up an independent
board that would set national health-care spending goals by
negotiating with representatives of various sectors of health
care. The plan would also grant tax breaks to small
businesses and individuals to help them buy health insurance.
   Mr. Mitchell said the plan would cost the federal
government about $6 billion the first year, but would save
$78 billion in public and private health-care expenditures
over the first five years.
   Blue Cross/Blue Shield Association President Bernard
Tresnowski called the bill a "benchmark" in the health-care
debate, calling it a "set of responsible ideas that will
drive a long-overdue debate." The American Medical
Association called it an "interesting and thoughtful first
step." The AFL-CIO commended the Senate Democrats efforts,
but said the cost-control measures were too lax. Hospital
groups worried that they were too strict.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

