<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="WSJ871019-0079 LA060689-0139 WSJ871001-0013 WSJ871022-0085
WSJ870918-0042 WSJ870702-0104 AP900319-0118 WSJ870915-0116
AP900312-0193 WSJ870812-0119"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   
  
President Reagan chose Robert Bork as a nominee to the Supreme Court.
Judge Bork was a Yale professor of law in the 60s, appointed to be the
United States Solicitor General in 1972 and then appointed to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in 1982.  His
nomination to our highest court was extremely controversial.  His
critics were led in their successful effort to defeat him by Senator
Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware,
Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Bork's supporters believe he was opposed because he endorses judicial
restraint.  He sticks with legal principle rather than what is "good"
or "moral" or "right" within current activists' social, economic or
criminal-justice agendas.

Bork's critics vilified him as a racist and sexist.  He was said to be
a judicial extremist, outside of mainstream legal reasoning, and a
threat to the republic.  To the contrary, his supporters pointed out
that none of the 416 opinions Bork wrote or joined were ever
overturned.  Further, there is ample evidence of his pro-civil rights
rulings.
   
Bork is now a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.  He
teaches, lectures, writes and spends his leisure time reading mystery
novels.  </SUM>
