<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="WSJ871019-0079 LA060689-0139 WSJ871001-0013 WSJ871022-0085
WSJ870918-0042 WSJ870702-0104 AP900319-0118 WSJ870915-0116
AP900312-0193 WSJ870812-0119"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

President Reagan chose Robert Bork as his nominee to replace the
retiring Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell.  At the time, the
60-year-old Judge Bork was considered by many to be one of the
nation's most eminent legal scholars and practitioners.  He is an
expert on antitrust law and is widely published.  He was a Yale
professor of law in the 60s and taught there again for a short period
in the late 70s.  Richard Nixon appointed him to be United States
Solicitor General in 1972 and then President Reagan appointed him to
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in 1982.  His
nomination to our highest court was extremely controversial and
eventually defeated.

His critics, mostly liberal Senate Democrats and liberal special
interest groups, considered him to be extremely conservative and
outside the mainstream of modern law.  They were led in their efforts
to defeat him by Senator Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator
Joseph Biden of Delaware, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Senator Packwood of Oregon was the only Republican to initially oppose
Bork.

Bork's supporters contend that the reason these groups opposed him was
because Bork is a strict constitutional constructionist.  He makes
"neutral-principled" decisions based on established law irrespective
of who may win or lose.  He believes in judicial restraint, sticking
with legal principle rather than what is "good" or "moral" or "right"
within current activists' social, economic or criminal-justice
agendas.  Judge Bork believes that our courts have become politicized
and increasingly tend toward creating rather than interpreting law.
He feels this undermines our constitutional separation of powers and
thus our democracy.

Bork's critics vilified him during the Senate confirmation hearings.
He was demonized as a racist, sexist, sterilizer and bedroom spy.  He
was said to be a judicial extremist and a threat to the republic.  To
the contrary, his supporters pointed out that none of the 416 opinions
Bork wrote or joined were ever overturned.  As Solicitor General, Bork
argued more pro-civil rights cases than any Supreme Court nominee
since Thurgood Marshall.  Also, the NCAAP Legal Defense Fund Defense
Fund supported him in 9 out of 10 cases where they both filed briefs.
In spite of these facts, Senator Biden said, "Throughout his career,
Judge Bork has opposed virtually every civil rights advance."  Bork
supporters ask, "How can this be?"

Bork now teaches, lectures, writes and spends his leisure time reading
mystery novels.  </SUM>
