<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870702-0104"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

President Reagan named Judge Robert Bork, 60, as his replacement to
the Supreme Court for retiring Justice Powell.  Bork faces a tough
confirmation battle lead by liberal Senate Democrats.  Bork, a Yale
Law School Professor in the 60's was appointed solicitor general in
1973 by President Nixon and then to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia in 1982 by Reagan.  He earned a reputation as an
intellectual leader of conservative legal thought through his prolific
and forceful writings as a law professor and judge.  He believes
strongly in precedent and a narrow judicial interpretation of law.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870812-0119"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Why the controversy surrounding Judge Bork's nomination to the Supreme
Court?  Is it because he makes "neutral-principled" decisions based on
established law irrespective of who may win or lose?  He believes in
judicial restraint, sticking with legal principle rather than what is
"good" or "moral" or "right" within current activists' social,
economic or criminal-justice agendas.  Bork says the job of a judge is
to understand the principle that the framers were trying to protect
and apply that principle in today's circumstances, always protecting
the value or the freedom that the framers were trying to protect ---
and not some new freedom.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870915-0116"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Legal resumes get no better than Judge Bork's.  During his career, he
has inquired boldly into the nature of law and society.  None of the
416 opinions he has written or joined has been overturned by the
Supreme Court.  Nevertheless, he has been subjected to a fury centered
on the canard that he outside the legal mainstream.  Why?  Because the
once conventional doctrine of legal restraint is believed threatened
by the elites of law schools, bar associations and judiciary who enjoy
the power of activism.  Liberals want to defend their ability to
accomplish in court what the electorate is unwilling to enact.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870918-0042"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Senators this week have been busy attempting to prove that Judge
Robert Bork, President Reagan's nominee to the Supreme Court, is a
judicial extremist, a threat to the republic.  They are replaying
anything controversial that he ever wrote or said.  Further, they are
aided by activists who claim Bork does not support the rights of
women, minorities, the press and other groups.  One group, "People for
the American Way" suggests that anyone who supports Bork opposes "the
people."  Senators of the judiciary committee are following these
lobbyists lead in their questioning.  Bork defended himself well, with
scholarly precision and often humor.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871001-0013"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Judge Bork specializes in antitrust law.  In testimony before the
Senate Judiciary Committee, legal experts differed sharply over what
impact Bork's free-market approach to antitrust law would have on
competition and consumers.  Some say his antitrust views are too
conservative.  Others praise his approach as "designed to promote
consumer welfare."

President Reagan believes special interest groups have conducted a
deliberate campaign of disinformation and distortion about Bork, aimed
to sway moderate Republicans who along with southern Democrats are
needed to defeat Bork's nomination. White House officials also believe
that Bork's record as a crime fighter hasn't received sufficient
attention during the hearings.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871019-0079"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

Distortions of Judge Bork's unambiguous civil-rights record are a lie.
As an Appellate Judge for the District of Columbia, never did he
render an opinion less sympathetic to minority or women's rights than
the Supreme Court.  Furthermore, his opinions are among the circuit's
most notable rulings.  As Solicitor General Bork argued more pro-
civil rights cases than any Supreme Court nominee since Thurgood
Marshall.  The NAACP Legal Defense Fund supported him in 9 of the 10
cases where they both filed briefs.  Yet, Senator Biden claims,
"Throughout his career, Judge Bork has opposed virtually every civil
rights advance."  How can this be?  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871022-0085"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

As the Senate takes up Robert Bork' nomination to the Supreme Court,
Senators heatedly deny they have been misinformed about his beliefs.
He has been characterized as racist, sexist, sterilizer and bedroom
spy during his careers as a Yale law professor, U.S. solicitor general
or appeals judge.  There is ample evidence that Bork has been
reasonable, mainstream and unbiased throughout his careers.  Lobbyists
actually took a poll to find the best issues for distorting Bork's
views.  The liberal Advocacy Institute will hold a seminar on how the
left beat Bork.  The theme is that, "facts count, but symbols may
count even more."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA060689-0139"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Robert Bork has written a book "The Tempting of America" to be
published by the Free Press.  In it he discusses his views of
democracy, legal theory and his contentious defeat as nominee to the
Supreme Court.  He claims that by politicizing the courts, Americans
have eaten away at "the peoples right to legislate the laws we want to
live by."  This undermines our constitutional separation of powers.
It is not just liberals; conservatives have done the same thing.  Both
are wrong.  He blames law school professors and other elite groups who
no longer trust the American people to decide our laws.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900312-0193"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
Robert Bork, after being defeated as nominee to the Supreme Court,
joined the American Enterprise Institute and then became a best
selling author by authoring "The Tempting of America." He believes
this book on legal theory may have a positive effect on the views of
future generations, even more so than decisions he may have made on
the Supreme Court.  Are his views vindicated?  He said that he never
felt the need for vindication.  He plans to write two more books, hit
the lecture circuit, teach, write magazine commentary and catch up on
his reading.  Beside mysteries are his other pastime.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900319-0118"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Robert H. Bork stood before the nation's highest court as a lawyer,
making him the first defeated Supreme Court nominee ever to argue
before its justices.  There was no mention of his 1987 nomination
fight as Bork engaged in debate with the justices and opposing lawyers
over the complexities of international banking, federal law and
related matters.  They questioned him vigorously, as did Justice
Anthony M. Kennedy, who occupies the seat that eluded Bork.  Bork is
only the sixth man this century to be denied a Supreme Court seat by
the Senate and the twenty-sixth in its history.  </SUM>
