<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA041889-0039"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Abebe Mekonnen from Ethiopia won the Boston Marathon in 2:09:06, with
Juma Ikangaa from Tanzania second.  The women's winner was Ingrid
Kristiansen of Norway in 2:24:33, with Marguerite Buist second.  The
winners earned $45,000.  Kristiansen finished 26th overall, believed
to be the highest finish for a woman in this race.  Ethiopian runners
won three major marathons in two days, winning in Rotterdam and Milan.
Although Ethiopia boycotted four of the last five Olympics, it has a
long history of marathon success, with runners training at high
altitude to enhance aerobic capacity.  Joan Benoit Samuelson, course
record holder, had her worst performance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA050889-0075"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Rex Wilson of New Zealand, in only his third marathon, won Sunday's
Long Beach Marathon with a record 2:12:27 finish.  Wen Yanmin from
Beijing won the women's race in 2:43:33, also the course record.  Each
won $9,500.  Conditions at the start of the race were excellent with a
field of 4,021, the largest ever.  The humidity rose later in the
race, creating problems.  The women's finish was the most exciting
with Wen coming from behind near the end to beat Laura Konatz of
Toronto.  Tomio Bueyoshi of Japan finished second in the race.  Robert
Molinatti won the wheelchair division.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA103089-0043"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The Chicago marathon was won on Sunday by Paul Davies-Hale of England,
in his first marathon, in 2:11:25.  Lisa Weidenbach of Issaquah,
Washington, repeated as champion with a personal best time of 2:28:15.
This, the 12th Chicago marathon, was the second hottest, with about
8,000 runners starting.  Early leaders faded with Davies-Hale
conservatively running five- minute miles.  Ravil Kashapov of the
Soviet Union was second.  Ed Eyestone was the first U.S.  finisher,
coming in fourth.  Carla Beurskens of the Netherlands finished second
for the women.  Winners earned $50,000, with second place earning
$30,000.  Wheelchair race winners were Scot Hellebuyck and Ann Cody
Morris.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA121189-0017"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Ernesto Beatriz Martinez of Mexico won the San Diego International
Marathon on Sunday.  His time was 2:16:12, 39 seconds ahead of South
African Mark Plaatjes.  Marie Rollins, from Ireland, won the women's
race in 2:39:05 with Mindy Ireland of Escondido, California, second.
The winners each received $5,000.  Doug Kurtis of Detroit ran his 12th
marathon in a calendar year under 2:20, finishing fourth.  Maurilio
Castillo was awarded third place, although he had originally entered
the accompanying half marathon and mistakenly followed the longer
route.  Bill Fricke of Los Angeles won the wheelchair marathon in
1:55:30.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081890-0039"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

America's Finest City HomeFed Half-Marathon will be held Sunday in San
Diego, beginning on the Point Loma Peninsula and ending in Balboa
Park.  Alphonce Swai, a 1984 Olympian for Tanzania who dropped out
because of alcoholism, hopes to continue his comeback that began in
May.  Other favorites include Carlo Ayala and Jose Luis Chuela of
Mexico, and Sam Sitonik and Sammy Rotich of Kenya.  The women's field
is led by Kim Jones of Spokane, Washington; Janine Aiello of Taos, New
Mexico; Lynn DeNinnof of St. Louis; and Kathryn Evans of Fort Collins,
Colorado.  The course is considered to be very difficult.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110490-0184"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

The Marine Corps Marathon will be today in Washington, D.C.  Naval
Officer, Lt. Guy Zanti will be running the 26.2 miles aboard the
battleship Wisconsin, where he is deployed in the Middle East.  He
became interested in marathon running in April when he watched his
53-year- old father run his first marathon.  Zanti's wife and father
will be running in Washington.  Zanti had been based in the
Mediterranean where he had planned to train, eventually running the
marathon on land.  The Wisconsin is 887 feet long, so it will take 75
laps of the ship to equal a marathon.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110590-0038"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Douglas Wakiihuri, a Kenyan who trains in Japan, and Poland's Wanda
Panfil, who lives in Mexico, were the winners in Sunday's hot and
humid New York City Marathon.  Wakiihuri's time was 2:12:39.  Panfil's
time was 2:30:45. With Kim Jones of Spokane, Washington, finishing
second, only 5 seconds behind.  Favorites, Juma Ikangaa and Grete
Waitz, finished fourth.  Ikangaa had won with a course record last
year and Waitz had won the race nine times.  The first American
finisher was Gerry O'Hara of New York, who came in 29th.  This was
Wakiihuri's eighth marathon and fourth win.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910326-0090"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

John Kelley, 83, is preparing for his 60th Boston Marathon on April
15.  Kelley won the Boston in 1935 and 1945 and was runner-up seven
times and finished in 5:05 last year.  He has been the oldest
competitor for 15 years.  An older man competed in the 1930's, but he
walked, not ran.  Kelley is considered a medical wonder, undergoing
tests of the Cooper Aerobics Center in Dallas, where Dr. Kenneth
Cooper declared he had the body of a man 23 years younger.  The Boston
Marathon in televised and has $402,000 in prize money, with 13,000
runners expected to compete.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06105230"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

If the last three years are indicators, the Boston Marathon will
feature speed.  It is expected to be a race of attrition, with early
speedsters burning out.  Last year, 11 checkpoint records were broken
by runners who did not win.  The winner, Gelindo Bordin, ran a patient
race winning in 2:08:19.  Formidable runners from Kenya, Tanzania, and
Ethiopia will be here this year, as will top-ranking British and
U.S. runners.  The women's field is headed by the two fastest female
marathoners is history, Ingrid Kristiansen and Joan Benoit Samuelson.
Sentimental favorite will be Johnny Kelley, 83, running his 60th
Boston.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d28"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06312120"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

Tour companies are now arranging marathon vacations, trips to distant
cities to compete in a marathon race.  Marathon Tours in Boston took
5,500 people last year on 20 tours.  The packages include airfare,
hotel, and race entry, with qualifying times not required.  Choice
locations include London, Berlin, Brussels, Venice, Bermuda, Ireland,
Tele Aviv and Budapest.  Some cities also offer 1/2 marathons or kids
runs.  Tours include guided runs and fun runs, some along scenic
routes.  Promoters acknowledge running is not everyone's idea of a
vacation, but it is a great way to see a city.</SUM>
