<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015 AP880914-0027 WSJ900914-0127 AP880913-0204
AP880914-0079 AP901130-0060 SJMN91-06169114 AP880601-0040
AP900529-0005 LA120389-0130 AP900601-0040 AP881018-0136
AP890529-0030 AP890922-0167 AP890803-0008 LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">   

Hurricane Gilbert with winds of 175 mph and barometric pressure 26.13
inches was the most intense hurricane ever recorded.  It was also one
of the largest with storm force winds extending 250 miles north and
200 miles south.  Gilbert and Hugo did Billions of dollars in damages
and killed 300 and 57 persons, respectively.  Hurricanes today pose a
greater threat to life and property because of the increased
concentration of population and homes along the Atlantic and Gulf
coastal areas.  The greatest loss of life caused by an Atlantic
hurricane occurred in 1900, when an unnamed hurricane killed 6,000 at
Galveston, Texas.  Hurricane tracking is expected to improve when
newer and more satellites are available.  Hurricanes are spanned off
the Atlantic coast of Africa and to develop, need ocean surface
temperatures above 80 degrees Fahrenheit.  Dr. William Gray of the
Atmospheric Science Department at Colorado State University found a
striking correlation between rainfall in the Sahel and number and
intensity of Atlantic hurricanes: fewer hurricanes in a drought and
more hurricanes in seasons with normal or greater rainfall to provide
moisture to power the storms.  Dr.  Gray's studies have permitted him
to make accurate predictions of hurricane activity.</SUM>
