<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015 AP880914-0027 WSJ900914-0127 AP880913-0204
AP880914-0079 AP901130-0060 SJMN91-06169114 AP880601-0040
AP900529-0005 LA120389-0130 AP900601-0040 AP881018-0136
AP890529-0030 AP890922-0167 AP890803-0008 LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Three Category Five storms have been recorded in the Western
Hemisphere since records have been kept: Hurricane Gilbert, with winds
of 175 mph and barometric pressure of 26.13 inches was the most
intense.  It was also one of the largest with storm force winds
extending 250 miles north and 200 south.  It left 300 people dead and
caused billions of dollars of damage in Jamaica, Cayman Islands, and
Mexico.  Hugo killed 57 people and caused $10B damage and would have
been worse had it hit almost anyplace else. Because of population
growth along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts hurricanes pose an
increasing threat. If a major hurricane were to hit Miami today,
computer modeling indicates that it would cause untold damage and
leave nine feet of water on Biscayne Boulevard in the downtown area.
Generally, there were fewer hurricanes in the 1970s and 1980s than in
the previous two decades.  The hurricane that surprised Galveston,
Texas, in 1900, the largest recorded in the US, killed 6000 people.

The National Hurricane Center is concerned about the loss of Air Force
flights to track hurricanes and looks upon satellite coverage, while
great, is not sufficient to cover the large area that needs to be
watched.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has been
asked to take over the flights.  New satellites were not expected
until the late 1990s.  Satellite accuracy is improving each year, so
long range forecasting should become more precise.  Super computers,
satellites and forecaster expertise predicted the path of Hugo which
was upgraded to a category 4 (borderline 5) just before it hit
Charleston, South Carolina.

Dr William Gray, professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State
University, has been fairly accurate in long range hurricane
predictions.  Comparing yearly rainfall levels in the Sahel region of
Africa with high-powered hurricanes, Gray found a striking
correlation.  In years of drought in that area, there were fewer
hurricanes and in years of normal or above average rainfall, more
hurricanes occurred.  To develop, hurricanes need ocean surface
temperatures above 80 degrees Fahrenheit.  Winds moving across warm
ocean air cause updrafts of air bearing sea water that turn into rain
clouds.  In the absence of moisture, storms quickly dissipate, but
with additional moisture, gather strength.  Because of an apparent
break in the African drought, Dr Gray predicts more intense Atlantic
hurricanes in the 1990s, and perhaps beyond, than in the 1970s and
1980s.</SUM>
