<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0079"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Gilbert became the most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Western
Hemisphere in terms of barometric pressure when a low of 26.13 was
recorded.  Bob Sheets, who became Director of the National Hurricane
Center in March, 1987, said that he had flown into hurricanes 200
times and it is not difficult.  Gilbert became a Category 5 storm when
its winds reached 175 mph.  Gilbert has been compared to the Labor Day
hurricane in 1935 that killed 408 people in Florida, and to Hurricane
Camille in 1969 which killed 256.  The last major hurricane to make
landfall was Elena in 1985, along the Mississippi, Alabama and Florida
Panhandle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
  
The National Hurricane Center study said that the US death toll from a
major hurricane could be far worse than previously predicted as they
marked the opening of the 1988 storm season.  The first tropical
depression of the year has formed just south of Cuba but is not
expected to strengthen.  A hurricane specialist said that the
Geo-Stationary Earth-Orbiting Environmental Satellite that covers part
of the Western Hemisphere may stop working making it necessary to
redirect GOES-East in order to monitor the hurricane-spawning area.
In 1987, there were only three hurricanes, Emily, Arlene, and Floyd,
and four tropical storms in the Atlantic.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881018-0136"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
Hurricane Joan churned across the open Caribbean following an unusual,
coast-hugging path.  Fifty people were reported dead or missing in a
town in Colombia.  Panama issued a Hurricane Watch for Joan which is
the Atlantic Season's fifth hurricane.  Joan is expected to leave
heavy rains along its path.  A strong high pressure system over the
northern Caribbean is keeping Joan on its course.  Normally winds and
atmospheric conditions push northward as they move from the Atlantic.
Gilbert, the most devastating Hurricane in recent years, left 300
people dead and caused billions of dollars of damage in Jamaica,
Cayman Islands, and Mexico.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0204"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
National Hurricane Center Director Bob Sheets answered reporters'
questions as he dealt with his first hurricane since becoming
director.  Gilbert, a highly destructive hurricane was moving across
the western Caribbean.  Sheets said that Gilbert would be considered a
"Great Hurricane", in the top 10% as far as intensity, size, and
destructive potential.  Gilbert was being compared to the 1935
hurricane which killed 600 people and Hurricane Camille which
devastated the Mississippi coast in 1969, killing 256.  The last major
hurricane to make landfall was Elena in 1985.  Sheets said that
Gilbert is "well-behaved" doing what "we think it's going to
do."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0027"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
With winds of 175 mph, Gilbert is the most intense hurricane ever
recorded in the western Hemisphere.  The barometric pressure at
Gilbert's center measured 26.13 inches, the lowest ever recorded in
the Western Hemisphere.  With storm force winds extending 250 miles
north and 200 miles south of the center, Gilbert was also one of the
largest.  Gilbert is only one of three Category 5 storms in the
hemisphere since detailed records have been kept.  Gilbert's storm
surge, the great dome of water that follows the eye and accounts of
90% of fatalities, is only 8-12 feet, less that Camille's which was 25
feet.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
William Gray, a hurricane expert, predicts more and fiercer storms in
the Atlantic.  He expects six this year, average for the last 40
years, but above average for the decade.  Gray said his models of air
pressure, winds around the equator, and winds for El Nino periods do
no allow for predictions of when or where hurricanes will occur.  He
predicted four in 1987, three actually occurred; four for four in
1986, seven for seven in 1985 five for seven in 1984.  Drought in West
Africa in the 1970s and 1980s robbed storm systems of moisture needed
to escalate storms into hurricanes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890529-0030"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
At the opening of the 1989 Atlantic hurricane season, forecasters hope
for new technological help critical to growing coastal populations.
The Air Force is phasing out hurricane reconnaissance flights,
agreeing to only two more years.  Only one satellite is now available
for tracking hurricanes.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration has been approached to take over the flights. New
satellites are not expected until late 1990.  Forecaster Hal Gerrish
said that "now we can see past the Antilles into the Atlantic and over
toward Hawaii on the west," but he would like to be able to see all
the way to Africa where Atlantic hurricanes develop.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Hurricane Chantal, the first of the season, caused an oil drilling
work vessel to capsize, trapping as many as 10 crew members.  Rescue
divers were unable to search the overturned vessel because of strong
winds and high waves.  The search had to be called off but it was
hoped that some of the crew were in airtight cabins with enough oxygen
to survive.  Chantal was expected to hit the western Louisiana or
upper Texas coast.  Coastal residents prepared for the storm and
grocery stores reported a steady demand for hurricane staples: bottled
water, batteries, canned goods and tape for windows.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0167"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Super computers, satellites, and forecaster expertise predicted the
destructive path of Hurricane Hugo allowing people time to flee the
South Carolina coast.  The real forecasting problem with Hugo was
predicting its intensity which was upgraded to a Category 4 hurricane
just before it slammed into Charleston.  Forecasters analyze super
computer predictions, satellite data, history of similar storms, and
the current path of the hurricane to determine its track; then they
make an educated guess.  The accuracy of satellite pictures is
improving each year so long range forecasting should become more
precise.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890803-0008"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Residents of the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, and nearby islands were
warned to bolt down everything loose and stock up on food and water to
prepare for Hurricane Dean.  Dean was upgraded from a tropical storm
to the second hurricane of the Atlantic season.  In San Juan, shoppers
formed long lines in supermarkets and workers boarded up windows of
the governor's mansion and stores in the tourist district.
Forecasters expected the storm to hit land first in Barbuda, the
eastern most Leeward Island.  In Florida, a hurricane specialist
called Dean a small hurricane with hurricane force winds confined
within 25 miles of its center.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120389-0130"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Meteorologist William Gray predicts more intense Atlantic hurricanes
in the coming decade or two unlike the 1970s and 1980s because of an
apparent break in the African drought.  Rainfall in the Sahel,
typically associated with more intense hurricanes was above average in
1988 for the first time since 1969.  Hurricane Hugo had sustained
winds of 150 mph and an atmospheric pressure of 27.1 inches.
Officially a four, Hugo may have been a borderline 5.  The threat of
global warming may also portend hurricanes more powerful says
meteorologist Kerry Emanuel of MIT.  To develop, Hurricanes need ocean
surface temperatures of above 80 degrees Fahrenheit.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
The 1990 Atlantic hurricane season begins amid warnings that the last
two years may have been harbingers of a new era of destructive storms.
A recent National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration report notes
that the coastal areas from Maine to Texas will experience a 60%
growth in population and are ill prepared to handle a hurricane
emergency.  Predictions of increased hurricane activity are based on
studies, atmospheric low pressure waves, and increased rainfall trends
in West Africa near the breeding grounds for most hurricanes.  There
are five categories of hurricanes: Category 1 has sustained winds from
74-95 mph; Category 5 has top winds greater than 155 mph.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900529-0005"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Hurricane Hugo got the public's attention.  It caused an unprecedented
$10B in damage, killed 28 people in the Lesser Antilles, and 29 in
South Carolina.  But it could have been more deadly if it hit almost
any place else.  Early warnings about Hugo allowed 350,000 people to
be evacuated safely.  Hugo was the worst hurricane to strike the
southeastern US coast since Betsy hit Florida in 1965, killing 74.
Since then, the population of areas such as south Florida has
ballooned and most residents have never directly experienced a
hurricane.  Hugo may have been the first in a new era of killer
storms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901130-0060" 
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
The 1990 hurricane season had more storms than usual but did not
include the devastating storms of years past.  Normal rainfall in the
Sahel signaled the end of a 20-year drought and may have spanned
Gilbert in 1988 and Hugo in 1989.  Dr. William Gray, a professor of
atmospheric science in Colorado, predicts a below average hurricane
season based on below average rainfall in the Sahel and other factors.
This season there were 14 named storms, eight of them hurricanes.  The
most deadly was Diana which killed 96 people in floods and mud slides
in Mexico and caused extensive damage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900914-0127"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Dr. William Gray, a professor of atmospheric science at Colorado State
University predicted that the 1990 tropical storm season would be
above average.  Rainfall in the Sahel region of West Africa is the
indicator he uses to predict hurricanes.  Winds moving across warm
ocean air cause updrafts of air bearing sea water that turn into rain
clouds.  In the absence of moisture, the storms quickly dissipate, but
storms gather strength with additional moisture.  Comparing yearly
rainfall levels in the Sahel with the number of high-powered Atlantic
hurricanes, Dr Gray found a striking correlation.  Dr Gray said
climate changes in the Sahel result from natural weather cycles.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06169114"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Many people in Miami worry about the "Big One", a devastating
hurricane that could cause untold damage to the city.  "Surprise"
hurricanes like the Galveston hurricane in 1900 that killed 6000 are
unlikely, but scientists expect a major hurricane to hit within 75
miles of Miami every eight years.  If a really major storm were to hit
Miami today, it would be totally different from the big hurricane that
hit Miami in 1926.  A storm today with winds topping 155 mph could
cause water levels to reach 9 feet on Biscayne Boulevard in downtown
Miami and over 13 feet in low lying areas south of the city.</SUM>
