<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015 AP880914-0027 WSJ900914-0127 AP880913-0204 AP880914-0079
AP901130-0060 SJMN91-06169114 AP880601-0040 AP900529-0005 LA120389-0130
AP900601-0040 AP881018-0136 AP890529-0030 AP890922-0167 AP890803-0008
LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">   

As the 1988 hurricane season began, Dr. William Gray told the National
Hurricane Conference he expected numerous severe storms, adding that
models cannot predict time or location along the coastline of 43
million inhabitants.

Fueling this anxiety were problems of timely warning and evacuation,
inadequacy of shelters and untested condominium structures.

In September, hurricane Gilbert roared into the Caribbean, labeled
category five, only the third ever recorded here.

A hurricane must have winds of 160 mph, atmospheric pressure lower
than 27.17, and great potential destructiveness to be so designated.

Robert Sheets, Director of the hurricane center, said Gilbert was
comparable to the storm of 1935 in the Florida keys which killed 600
and Camille in 1969.

The following day Gilbert headed for the Yucatan Peninsula with winds
of 175 mph, the most severe hurricane ever recorded.

In October of 1988, hurricane Joan, the season's 10th named storm,
headed for Panama after striking Bogota, Colombia.

As the 1989 season neared, forecasters worried that hurricane damage
would increase while forecasting capabilities decreased.  One weather
satellite was nonfunctioning and the Air Force threatened to end
reconnaissance flights.

In August, 1989, hurricane Chantal capsized a ship, killing several,
before heading for Texas and Louisiana.

Another 1989 hurricane, Dean, followed, threatening Caribbean islands
with strong winds and rain.
  
Meteorologists use models developed from satellite data and
supercomputers to track storms, but intensity is difficult to
determine.  For example, hurricane Hugo's increasing winds were only
detected by air reconnaissance four hours before striking Charleston.

Meteorologist William Gray predicted in late 1989 that increased
African rainfall portends more intense hurricanes.

In 1990, Bob Sheets said that hurricane Hugo provided a strong warning
last year.  Its impact lessened because it struck an area of low
population which got adequate warning although it was the worst
hurricane to strike the southeast United States since 1965.  Sheets
worried, however, that coastal areas are ill prepared, and urged
stepped-up planning.

Dr. Gray again stated in September, 1990 his belief that more
hurricanes will occur due to increased African rainfall.  There were
nine named storms so far that year.

1990 saw eight mild hurricanes due, according to Gray, to a dryer
African season.

However, Bob Sheets predicted more hurricane activity in the 90's.

In June, 1991, experts said that Miami is overdue for a hurricane; the
last occurred in 1964.  When polled, most residents said they wouldn't
evacuate in a hurricane.</SUM>
