<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880409-0015"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

William Gray, an atomospheric scientist from Colorado State
University, told the National Hurricane Conference to expect about six
Atlantic hurricanes in the 1988 season, which starts on June 1.  Gray
said the average 1988 hurricane will likely be more intense than those
of the past six years, adding that meterologists' models cannot
predict when or where they will form.

He believes recent African droughts have lessened Atlantic hurricane
activity but this will likely change, adding that the increased United
States coastal population makes that area more vulnerable to damage
than in the past.

Grays predictions have been close to accurate in the recent
past.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

The 1988 hurricane season has begun, and a study shows that the death
toll could be far higher than previously predicted.  Bob Sheets,
director of the Hurricane Center, says coastal flood models show many
more people than previously thought would have to be evacuated.  43
million people live in east coast counties in the United States;
evacuation is considered nearly impossible, adequate shelters scarce
and condominium safety is questionable.

Two satellites track Atlantic hurricanes, but one may fail this year.

A typical hurricane season (June 1 to November 30) has 10 named
storms; six become hurricanes with drenching rain and winds exceeding
74 miles per hour.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0204"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Gilbert, with winds of 160 miles per hour and a pressure of
26.66, is a category 5 hurricane located in the western Carribbean
heading for the Gulf of Mexico.

It is being closely monitored at the National Hurricane Center.

A category 5 hurricane must have a pressure under 27.17, winds of 160
miles per hour and great potential destructiveness.

Bob Sheets told reporters that Gilbert would be in the top 10 percent
of hurricanes for winds, pressure and potential destructiveness,
comparable to the storm of 1935 in the Florida Keys which killed 600,
and Camille, which struck Mississippi in 1969, killing 256.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0027"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Gilbert is headed for the Yucatan Penninsula with winds of
175 miles per hour - one of the worst recorded in the western
hemisphere, with the lowest atmospheric pressure and greatest area.

Gilbert is one of three category 5 storms recorded here, according to
meteorologist Jesse Moore.  Others were a 1935 storm, and Camille in
1969 with 172 miles per hour winds that killed 256 people and
inflicted $1.4 million damage.  The worst, (Galveston, 1905), killed
6000.

The storm surge - a dome of water following the eye across coastlines
- accounts for 90% of fatalities.
  
A tall chimney of moist air at the center drives the hurricane.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880914-0079"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Gilbert is barrelling through the Carribbean today,
threatening islanders with winds of 175 miles per hour and a barometer
reading of 26.13, the lowest ever recorded in the western hemisphere.

Bob Sheets, the newly appointed head of the National Hurricane Center
at Coral Gables, stays calm, giving press interviews, making forecasts
and writing advisories.

Gilbert qualifies as a Category 5 hurricane: winds higher than 155
miles per hour and a pressure under 27.17 inches.  It has been
compared to the Labor Day, 1935 hurricane in the Florida Keys, which
killed 408, and Camille, which struck Mississippi in 1969, killing
256.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881018-0136"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Joan is moving across the Carribbean today on an unusual
course, after leaving 50 people dead or missing in Colombia.  The
storm flooded the town of Carmen de Bolivar, north of Bogata.
  
Hurricane watches were issued for Panama's north coast and San Andres,
in Colombia.  It is expected to drop four to eight inches of rain
along its path.  It is building in strength as it moves along,
contrary to predictions.

A high-pressure system to the north has kept the storm on its path,
unlike the usual northward push.

Joan is the 10th named storm of the 1988 season.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120389-0130"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Meteorologist William Gray predicts more intense Atlantic hurricanes
in the future because of lessening drought in Africa.

Hurricanes usually form from tropical disturbances moving westward
from the Salel region in West Africa.

As classified on the Saffir-Simpson scale; the fiercist hurricane is a
number five, with winds over 155 miles per hour and an atmospheric
pressure dropping drastically.

From 1970 to 1987 only 13 severe storms formed; in 1988 and 1989,
there were five.  Gilbert, in 1989, was the mightiest on record in the
Western Hemisphere.

Global warming may also be a factor.  Hurricanes need a water
temperature of 80 degrees Fahrenheit to sustain themselves.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900529-0005"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Hugo provided a strong warning to the public.  Because it
struck a sparsely populated area in South Carolina with adequate
warning, 350,000 persons were evacuated safely.  In a denser area,
Hugo would have caused damage greater than Americans have ever seen.
Hugo was the worst hurricane in the southeast United States since
1965.

The National Hurricane Center uses a computer simulation called SLOSH,
which predicts the size of the storm surge and amount of damage.

William Gray, of Colorado State University, finds a correlation
between rainfall in Africa and Florida hurricanes.  Drought in Africa
reduces the number; a normal rainfall correlates with more
hurricanes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900601-0040"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

The 1990 hurricane season starts today amid fears of a new age of
destructive storms.  The season ends November 30.

Robert Spears, head of the National Hurricane Center in Miami, says
most growing coastal communities are ill-prepared.  Population growth
on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts from 1960-2010 will range from 60% to
200% leading to greater destruction and loss of life from hurricanes.
Greater preparedness and emergency planning are necessary, according
to Sheets, who predicts more and greater hurricanes.

Gilbert (1988) and Hugo (1989) left 350 dead and billions in damage.
Hugo showed inadequacies in emergency planning, broadcasting and use
of unsuitable shelters.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900914-0127"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Specialist Professor William Gray believes we are entering a
period of increased hurricanes and finds an association with seasonal
rainfall in Africa.

Mr. Gray uses five indicators in his prediction, including rainfall in
the African Sahel area, which has a natural cycle of rainfall and
drought.  He finds that in modern times, when the Sahel is dry,
Atlantic storms decrease in number, but when the Sahel is wet, an
increase occurs.
  
Forecasters are seeking to predict coastal storms more accurately to
provide early warning to heavily populated coastal areas.

There have been nine named storms this year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901130-0060"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

The 1990 hurricane season, which ends today, had more but less
devastating storms than usual, and one forecaster thinks 1991 will be
calmer.

Dr. William Gray of Colorado State University thinks a dry spell in
Africa accounts for the reduction of storms on the eastern seaboard
over the past 20 years.

Normal rainfall in the Sahel may have spawned Gilbert (1988) and Hugo
(1989).  Gray believes an anticipated low Sahel rainfall in 1991 will
make for fewer hurricanes.

The National Hurricane Center's chief, Bob Sheets, predicts higher
hurricane activity in the 90's and early years of the new century.

There were 8 hurricanes this season.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06169114"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricanes are to be expected in the tropics, but the Miami area has
been spared since 1964 when Cleo struck.  Previously, huge storms hit
Miami in 1916 and Key West in 1935 with catastrophic damage and loss
of life.

Experts at the National Hurricane Center now worry about a "big one,"
overdue after 27 years.  The area has been greatly built up in the
interim and 90% of residents of barrier islands say they would not
evacuate in a hurricane.

Experts at the Center, who track storms closely, feel the laws of
probability are closing in on Florida.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890529-0030"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Coastal populations have increased dramatically and the potential
damage from hurricanes has increased as well.

At the same time, means of forecasting and tracking hurricanes are threatened.
One of the two weather satellites has failed and the Air Force wants to end their
involvement in manned weather reconnaissance flights.

Bob Sheets, head of the National Hurricane Center, says the
replacement satellite won't be ready for two years. He also fears that
more hurricanes are occurring and are likely to strike the United
States with its highly populated coastline.

Last year, 505 persons died in Atlantic huqrricanes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080189-0042"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

The season's first hurricane, Chantal, headed for the Texas and
Louisiana coast today after capsizing an oil drilling ship, trapping
an estimated 10 men inside.

Up to six crewmen were rescued by Coast Guard helicopters and boats.

Worsening conditions prevented divers from searching the wreckage, and
the effort was called off by afternoon.

Chantal was declared a hurricane (74 mile per hour winds) and expected
to reach land later today.  Meanwhile, coastal residents began
preparations, buying bottled water and other necessities.
  
Flooding is a major concern for the Houston area, which expects high
winds, rain, and tides five to seven feet above normal.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890803-0008"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Hurricane Dean, the season's second, rumbled through the Carribbean
today, threatening the Leewards, U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
Residents were warned to prepare emergency supplies and secure
property.  Winds were clocked at 80 miles per hour.
  
Puerto Ricans crowded supermarkets and the Governor's windows were
boarded.  Forecasters expect Dean to make land in the Leewards, and in
the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico 24-36 hours later.
  
Hurricane specialist Jim Gross called Dean a small hurricane;
nevertheless, rainfall of four to eight inches and tides two to four
feet above normal are possible.

Allison, Barry and Chantal preceded Dean as named storms this
season.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d34"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890922-0167"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="K">          

Meteorologists use satellites and supercomputers to track hurricanes.
The resulting models embody all the world's knowledge about
meteorological conditions and changes.

The path of hurricane Hugo was predicted using this information.  More
difficult is predicting changes in intensity.  In Hugo's case, the
increased wind speed was detected by Air Force Reconnaissance,
upgrading Hugo to a Category 4 hours before it hit Charleston, South
Carolina.
  
Satellite information is fed into computers in Suitland, Maryland,
then to the Hurricane Center, where the tracking model constantly
changes, following the storm.  Using this data, history and the
storm's path, the meteorologists guess the probable landfall.</SUM>
