<SUM 
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880629-0159"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Two United States Air Force F-16 fighters, each carrying a single
pilot crashed from the 50th Tactical Air Wing at Hahn, collided and
exploded at 1:30 P.M. today.  The aircraft crashed near a populated
area south of Mainz, but no one on the ground was injured.  The West
German Police said one pilot was killed, but the Air Force did not
confirm the death.  The crash came less than two hours after another
F-16, this one from the 52nd Tactical Wing at Spangdahlen crashed into
the Black Forest after that pilot ejected.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880902-0062" 
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

A United States Air Force F-16C fighter, on a routine training flight
from Misawa Air Base in Northern Japan, crashed in a remote forested
area in Iwate Prefecture.  The pilot, Major Wyman Vanedoe, was the
sole occupant of the aircraft.  He bailed out and was evacuated back
to his base in a Japanese rescue helicopter.  About 50 F-16s at Misawa
belong to the 14th Tactical Fighter Squadron, and another of the
squadron's jets had crashed into the Pacific Ocean in March 1987. That
pilot also successfully bailed out and was rescued.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880913-0129"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

Two United States Navy F-14 fighters crashed yesterday, one plunging
into the Atlantic Ocean off North Carolina and the other crashing into
a hangar at its base at Gillespie near San Diego.  Six persons on the
ground were injured in the California crash, but the crewmen bailed
out shortly before impact.  The dead body of one of the aviators
involved in the crash off Cape Hatteras was recovered, but his
crewmate is missing.  A third military aircraft, a United States F-16A
from Hill Air Base in Utah crashed today.  The pilot bailed from the
plane that went down 25 miles west of the base.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881206-0114"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">
 
A United States Air Force B-52 bomber, assigned to the Strategic Air
Command and based at K.I. Sawyer Airfield in Michigan, crashed today
at 1:15 A.M. while practicing "touch-and-go" landings at its base.
The aircraft burst into flames.  None of the crew was burned, but all
suffered injuries, with one in critical condition. In recent B-52
crashes, two crewmembers were killed when their aircraft clipped a
mesa in Arizona, and on February 14th of this year there were no
injuries when a pilot overshot a runway in California.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881210-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     
 
A United States Air Force A-10 Thunderbolt attack jet crashed
Thursday, killing seven people on the ground while cutting a wide
swath through a working class neighborhood in the West German town of
Remscheid. Air Force officials could not explain why the aircraft
crashed.  On Saturday citizens of Remscheid marched in protest, and
asked for an end to low level flight training.  West German officials
are worried that the crash would have an adverse affect on the
dwindling support for defense issues.  West German skies are crowded
with military flights, and even before Thursday's crash, 12 major
accidents had befallen NATO aircraft this year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
 
A United States Air Force A-10 attack jet crashed and burned in
Britain this morning while on a routine training flight.  The aircraft
was assigned to the 10th Tactical Fighter Wing at Alconbury.  The
plane crashed 25 miles north of Cambridge.  The fate of the pilot is
not known.  Another A-10 Thunderbolt crashed in Germany two weeks ago,
and on the same day as the German crash, still another A-10 went down
in Arizona.  Despite the recent spate of accidents, statistics show
that the A-10 is the safest fighter or attack plane in the inventory.
</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA103089-0070"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

A two seat T-2 Buckeye jet trainer crashed Sunday on the flight deck
of the carrier Lexington as it was cruising 17 miles south of
Pensacola, Florida.  The jet was assigned to Training Squadron 19 at
the Meridian, Mississippi Naval Air Station.  Five were killed and
others injured. Several short-lived fires broke out on the World War
II-class carrier, the only one used exclusively for flight training.
Two aircraft on the flight deck suffered major damage.  Helicopters
took the injured to hospitals on the mainland.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900829-0120"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

A United States Air Force C-5 transport crashed early Wednesday as it
left Ramstein Air Base in Germany, a stopover point for the huge
aircraft that was carrying medical supplies and equipment destined for
American forces in Saudi Arabia.  The plane was assigned to the 60th
Military Airlift Squadron in California.  Nine of the 13 killed were
reservists who had volunteered to help in the military buildup in the
Persian Gulf.  The C-5 is the largest transport in the inventory, and
Wednesday's crash was the first C-5 to go down since one crashed in
April 1975, killing 172 people.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901010-0036"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

A United States Air Force F-111 fighter-bomber crashed at dawn today
in Saudi Arabia.  Both crew members were killed.  The aircraft was
assigned to the 48th Tactical Fighter Wing at Lakenheath in Britain,
and was deployed to Saudi Arabia via Turkey as Operation Desert Shield
progressed.  The F-111 crash followed closely upon Monday's
disappearance of two Marine Corps UH-1 Huey helicopters over the
Arabian Sea, and the crash of an Air Force F-4 reconnaissance jet on
the same day.  Today's crash raises the number of Americans killed in
Saudi Arabia to at least nine.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d14"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901012-0032"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 
 
Pentagon and Air Force officials announced that regular training
flight schedules for aircraft participating in Operation Desert Shield
would resume on Thursday.  It is estimated that the order covered 700
aircraft.  Aircraft training operations had been suspended for 24
hours following a rash of accidents.  Five United States aircraft have
been involved in fatal crashes since the start of Desert Shield.  They
are identified as an F-111, an F-4 reconnaissance jet, an F-15E and
two HU-1 Huey helicopters. In addition, a C-5 transport that crashed
in Germany was ferrying supplies to Saudi Arabia.</SUM>
