<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920103-0037"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Edward H. Crane writes in response to Robert Barro's letter to the
Wall Street Journal opposing term limits for Congress.  Mr. Crane
finds Mr. Barro's view, that we should have confidence in the wisdom
of the electoral process, naive and dewey-eyed.

Mr. Crane strongly supports term limits because:

1.  Less time in Washington with constant press attention would permit
less press corruption of common sense and growth in self-importance.
Indeed, some congressmen feel their opinions should be codified.

2. Short terms would allow congressmen seniority sooner and be less
likely to interrupt productive careers, indeed become a "leave of
absence," giving Congress a greater diversity.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911030-0008"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Public opinion polls show a deep feeling of public dismay and disgust
toward Congress that crosses party lines.  Voters feel they aren't
being heard and are losing confidence in the electoral system.

The 1990 elections reflected this feeling: although 96% of incumbents
were reelected, the margins of victory declined for the first time
since WWII.  The disaffection was fueled by frustration rather than
ideology: Voters want movement on healthcare, taxes and jobs and want
indefensible percs removed.

Opponents fear a power shift to unelected staff and lobbyists and
think committee assignments should be rotated so that members can
continue to grow.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092790-0010"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Nelson Polsby, expert on Governmental Studies at Berkeley, but
expressing his own opinion, says term limits won't accomplish
proponents' goals.  His reasons:

* New candidates would need a huge outlay of money to gain name
* recognition.  Incumbents are more powerful in relation to special
* interests than novices.  Limitations won't improve legislative
* functioning because experience will be lost. Newcomers must learn
* from staff, lobbyists and bureaucrats, necessarily ceding power to
* them.  Term limits guarantee that good legislators will disappear
* with the bad.  Term limits will prevent voters from voting for those
* they favor.  Groups and interests want term limits to improve
* chances of electing favorites.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102190-0045"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Interviews were conducted on the perceived effects of propositions on
the 1990 California ballot, specifically providing term limits on
state-wide office-holders and state legislators: Some responses
follow:

Richard Montjoy, Assemblyman: "By 1996 there would be an all new
legislature less prone to special interests..."

Robert Presley, State Senator: "Proposition would be reversed because
it won't work.  It would increase lobbyists' power; amateurs would run
... state ..."

Karl Kurtz, National Conference of State Legislatures: "Legislature
would lose ... leaders and committee chairmen; power would pass to the
executive branch."

Marc Petracca, Professor: "...would create spinoff effect to other
states, decrease special interests, but increase party
interest."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101090-0017"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Ross Baker, professor and author, writes on proposed term limits in
California and Colorado.  He reminds readers of the 22nd amendment
which he says hurt the Republicans, although they proposed it.  He
believes term limits are inappropriate for these reasons:

* Weak, short-term legislators will be controlled by governors,
bureaucrats and lobbyists.

* Legislators with term limits will aspire to higher office rather
than concentrating on their work.

* Lobbyists for special interests and unelected staff will grow more
powerful.

* Term limits are an indictment of citizenship; a statement that
voters cannot make good choices.

* Good legislators will be thrown out with the bad.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900418-0193"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

A Wall Street Journal editorial says Americans are overwhelmingly in
favor of term limits for members of Congress.  A Gallup Poll says this
opinion crosses lines of party, ideology and income.

Ninety-six percent of incumbents are reelected, many unopposed,
resulting in arrogance, a lack of accountability and a dearth of new
ideas.

While opponents say voters are to blame for reelecting incumbents,
campaign finance laws allow only incumbents to raise the money needed
to win.  Similarly, although opponents argue that citizens should be
allowed to vote for whom they please, they support the two-term limit
for the presidency, which tips power towards the legislature.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910718-0143"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

T. K. Wetherel, Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives,
writes the Wall Street Journal that an assertion that Alexander
Hamilton would have supported term limits would be incorrect.  The
Constitutional Convention rejected term limits as did the first
Congress.  He added that Madison said members of Congress ...by
frequent reelections," ..."will be thoroughly masters of the public
business."

He concludes that not Federalists, but those out-of-power clamored for
term limits, adding that Robert Livingston, at the convention to
ratify the Constitution, said "The people are the best judges (of) who
should represent them...."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911031-0012"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

As Washington state prepares to vote on term limits for its
congressional delegation, the question of constitutionality arises.

Many in opposition say limits are unconstitutional: the only
eligibility requirements are age, citizenship and residency.  However,
proponents argue term limits do not prevent one from serving in
Congress, only put a limit on consecutive terms, adding that further
qualifications have been struck down by the courts.

Term limits will be argued next month by the Florida Supreme Court;
California's court has already ruled the new limits on state
officials' terms constitutional.

Should term limits pass, one option might be the "write-in"
vote.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911106-0109"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

House Speaker Tom Foley spoke out against term limits in Washington
state, asserting that the proposal is supported by right-wing
activists.  Ron Brown, Democratic Chairman, says the idea is an
attempt by Republicans to get rid of those that can't be beaten at the
polls, but a CBS poll shows Americans overwhelmingly favor the limits
with very little demographic variation.

Term limits, it is believed, will open up politics to blacks and
women, among other minorities.

Democratic party officials are dead set against the proposal and
threaten those that support it with blacklisting.

Many governors, other state officials and well known journalists
support limits.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911224-0085"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Economists dislike term limits as another interference with free
markets.  However, the Wall Street Journal, who supports that
principle, surprisingly advocates term limits.
  
One argument is that incumbents' access to funds, media, travel and
mail privileges give them an unfair advantage. Opponents say the
public can discern this.

Another point raised is that a citizen Congress would provide better
government. Those opposed cite valuable experience.

Proponents say incumbents are usually re-elected, but opponents say
the system works and representation conforms with the publics' wishes.

Incumbents' seniority provide their districts with access to federal
programs.  Term limits would be a disadvantage unless all districts
were limited.</SUM>
