<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0006"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">        

From mid June through early July innumerable forest fires have burned
throughout the country's National Parks.  Many are small, just a few
acres, while others range from 1000 to more than 2000 acres.  Their
causes vary from lightening strikes to fireworks to hot vehicle
exhaust pipes.  The largest seems to be a fireworks-caused blaze that
swept over 2,200 acres near Yosemite National Park in California.
More than 670 firefighters from federal, state and local agencies
spent $384,000 to combat this fire, which is now under control.
Elsewhere, major fires occurred in Utah, Wyoming, Montana, Michigan,
Tennessee and Kentucky.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0018"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Sixty Forest Service firefighters brought Michigan's four-day Hiawatha
National Forest fire under control after it burned 1100 acres of
woodlands.  Firefighters were brought in from several states over the
Fourth of July holiday to help fight the blaze. Elsewhere, overnight
rain helped limit the growth of the Shoshone National Forest fire in
Wyoming that has burned 1650 acres so far.  The rain provided a
reprieve to the 430 firefighters who are fighting the blaze from the
air with helicopters and three air tankers and on the ground with four
bulldozers.  Fires in Yosemite and Yellowstone National Parks are also
being contained.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0109"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Firefighters battled holiday fires which have already blackened more
than 6000 acres of wilderness in California, Michigan, Montana,
Wyoming and Utah.  Illegal fireworks are blamed for the blaze that
swept over 2,200 acres of Stanislaus National Forest in California,
the scene of huge wildfires last summer.  In Utah's Zion National Park
fire, high winds fanned the flames out of control.  Michigan's
four-day Hiawatha National Park fire is being contained.  A fire,
which burned 8,700 acres in Arizona's Tonto National Forest, has been
reported extinguished.  Forest Service policy is to let fires burn
unless they threaten trails or structures, or spread outside
wilderness boundaries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880801-0195"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Dale Smallwood is one of 125 Forest Service criminal investigators.
He primarily investigates arson at Missouri's Mark Twain National
Forest.  It is consistently among the five forest districts with the
worst arson problem and is about 90% higher than the national average.
Arsonist set 172 of this year's 296 Mark Twain fires.  Smallwood says
it is part of a southern tradition to illegally burn forests.  Local
subsistence farmers claim that fire helps control ticks, snakes and
disease and the encroachment of trees where cattle graze.
Aesthetically, they like the smell of wood smoke and the look of a
"burned clean" forest.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880901-0052"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Forest fires are burning in seven western states, specifically,
California, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.  In
Alaska, all fires are now inactive.  The most threatening of seventeen
major blazes in Idaho broke through a control line and raced to within
a mile of ranches and grain fields.  Montana's governor said 5,000
firefighters there are in their third week of duty.  He put the
firefighting cost at $15 million.  Officials closed areas of parkland
throughout the west due to fire risk.  The U.S.  Forest Service,
predicting a hot and dry Labor Day weekend, is closing additional
areas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880923-0163"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Controversy exists as to what is best: allowing natural reforestation
after a forest fire, or promoting human intervention to speed up
"getting the forest green again."  In either case, everyone agrees
that post-fire recovery enables more and different plant, bird and
animal species to flourish in the forest for about 40 years until it
again matures and canopies over.  Also controversial is The National
Park Service's 16-year-old "natural burn" policy, which allows
lightening-caused forest fires to burn themselves out, except where
they threaten towns or park buildings.  Critics claim it was this
policy that enabled fires to destroy half of Yellowstone's 2.2 million
acres.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881216-0017"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

A panel, assembled last September after the worst fire season ever in
Yellowstone National Park, recommended a temporary halt to the
government's "let it burn" forest fire policy.  The panel's
recommendation, made to the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior,
stipulates that no fires be allowed to burn freely in national parks
and wilderness areas until the Forest Service and National Park
Service improve and strengthen their fire management plans.  These
responsible agencies must use a common vocabulary to develop standards
and policies, train employees in them and agree beforehand what will
be done if fires move across administrative boundaries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070189-0080"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

2300 firefighters now control an 8,200-acre brush fire in the
Cleveland National Forest in Riverside County, California.  It
destroyed 11 structures near Lake Elsinore.  The cost of fighting the
blaze may exceed $1.5 million and structural damage could be more than
$1.1 million.  The fire appears to have been caused by people near a
roadside store across the Orange County line.  Investigators appealed
for help to identify those responsible.  Elsewhere, a brush fire that
burned 2000 acres in the Antelope Valley is now contained.  The fire
claimed six structures including one home.  More than 1000 people were
forced to temporarily evacuate.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890708-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Fires burn thousands of acres in seven western states, at times
threatening homes, as firefighters contend with wind and high
temperatures.  The Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho listed 7,000
to 7,500 people fighting fires throughout the U.S., along with 42 air
tankers, 14 guide planes and 10 helicopters.  So far this year, the
agency has reported 31,000 fires, which have burned 1,117,000 acres.
In the same period last year, it had 54,000 fires which burned 765,000
acres. To date, the largest fire in the lower 48 states is the Diamond
Peak Utah fire, which burned 12,200 acres.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890714-0129"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">     

Rain and higher humidity helped firefighters control blazes in six
western states.  Firefighters in Nebraska began seeding grass and
planting trees.  However, the return of hot and dry weather will soon
end this welcomed break.  In New Mexico, a lightening- caused fire
polluted a creek with ash.  Biologists there rescued hundreds of the
endangered species of Gila trout.  566 trout were caught with
long-handled nets and taken to the Mescalero Fish Hatchery, where they
will remain until the creek becomes ash free.  Officials hope at least
90% will survive.  Elsewhere, an arson-caused fire blackened much of
California's scenic coastline near Big Sur.</SUM>
