<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06246065"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

By 2 September 1991, Clarence Thomas was ready to appear, as a
Republican nominee, before the Senate committee for confirming him as
a Supreme Court justice. The conversion of Thomas from liberal
Democrat and Malcolm X admirer to conservative Republican took place
over a period of several years beginning with his law school training
at Yale in 1971-1974.

Thomas' philosophy became one of taking advantage of the opportunities
afforded by the U.S. and that to rely on government for hand-outs was
nothing less than slavery. He opposed preferences given to racial
minorities who suffered discrimination and called for a colorblind
Constitution.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184021"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Clarence Thomas, the Supreme Court justice, attributes his values to
his grandparents who raised him in his early years.  They, more than
anyone else, shaped his beliefs on self-reliance, individualism, and
determination to survive under segregation.

Thomas was born of poor parents in 1948 in Pinpoint, Georgia.  He
attended religious schools for a time.  He left after discovering that
they were not a haven from segregation.

Thomas' real interest was the law.  He graduated from Yale Law in
1974.  He was selected for the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 1990.

Thomas lives with his wife and son in Virginia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184088"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Clarence Thomas' confirmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice are
scheduled to begin in August 1991. Democrats promise to determine
Thomas' views on a number of current important issues, abortion,
women's rights, etc.

Civil rights groups intend to oppose him, believing that he is
insensitive to the concerns of minorities and the elderly.  He is a
firm believer in a bootstrap philosophy.

Clarence Thomas was born on 23 June 1948.  Highlights of his career
are:

a. B.A., Holy Cross, 1971 b. J.D., Yale, 1974 c. Assistant Attorney
General, Missouri, 1974-77 d. Chairman, Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, 1982-1990 e. U.S. Circuit Court of appeals, 1990.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Dinesh D'Souza of the Wall Street Journal interviewed Clarence Thomas
prior to his appointment to the Supreme court to obtain his views.

Thomas stated that he did not believe in quotas because the U.S.  was
founded on individual rights rather than group rights.

Thomas' philosophy is that a judge should determine what the law says,
not what he wants it to say.  He has held fast to the ideals of his
grandfather, i.e., hard work, personal dignity and self- sufficiency.

Thomas has a passion for fairness and so far, has confounded the
experts who try to fit him into a mold.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Clarence Thomas, nominee to the Supreme Court, was brought up in
segregated Georgia.  He was abandoned by his father and lived with his
grandparents who educated him in a Catholic school of nuns.

Thomas became a believer in personal strength and individualism over
government activism, in effect, a black conservative.  He opposes
abortion rights, quotas and busing.

Thomas was educated at Holy Cross College, graduating in 1971, and
Yale Law School in 1974.  He worked as a lawyer in Missouri and was
appointed judge of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 1990.  Thomas
is married and has one son.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900306-0105"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Clarence Thomas was confirmed as a federal appeals judge on 6 March
1990.  He will be a judge on the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the
District of Columbia.

Complaints from liberals and senior citizens were ignored during the
confirmation.

Thomas was chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under Reagan and Bush.  He is a critic of affirmative action and
quotas.

Thomas was born into poverty in Georgia.  He worked his way through
college and completed Yale law school.  Before his tenure on the
Commission, he worked for Senator Danforth, a strong Thomas supporter,
as a lawyer.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184003"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

On July 1, 1991 President Bush nominated Clarence Thomas, a black
conservative republican, to replace Thurgood Marshall on the Supreme
Court.

Thomas is a bootstrap conservative who does not believe in affirmative
action, quotas or racial preferences for minority groups, saying that
these are unconstitutional.

Thomas studied for the priesthood at one time.  He has never taken a
stand on abortion, which Catholicism opposes.  Abortion rights
proponents intend to oppose him.  His stand on the major issues is
largely unknown.  President Bush believes that Thomas is a self- made
success.

If confirmed, he could be on the Supreme Court by October, 1991.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06255434"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

On September 11, 1991, as Clarence Thomas waits for his U.S.  Supreme
Court Justice confirmation, the media was focusing on his wife,
Virginia.  The question foremost in their minds was, how much
influence will she have on Clarence Thomas' decisions if he is
confirmed?

Some see her as more than a dutiful wife.  She has lobbied against
comparable-worth legislation.  Religious rights groups are concerned
by her anti-cult activities.  Other critics believe that since his
wife is white, Thomas has rejected his black roots and lacks a sense
of community.  Both Thomases believe that women and minorities are
harmed by affirmative action.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06290146"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

Pinpoint, Georgia, the home town of Clarence Thomas, made no secret of
its pride in its favorite son.  Its citizens, including his mother,
Leola Williams, were anxiously awaiting the results of the U.S. Senate
vote on 16 October 1991 for U.S. Supreme Court justice.

When the confirmation came, it brought joyful and prayerful
exclamations from his mother and the townspeople.

A reporter asked about the sexual harrassment charge brought against
her son by Anita Hill in 1981-1983. His mother responded with a prayer
and the comment that Hill was "put up to it" by someone else.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d13"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910709-0115"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="E">         

With Clarence Thomas about to go for confirmation as a Supreme Court
justice, there are conclusions to be drawn.

The author, Peggy Noonan, believes that Thomas "made it" because he
was loved by his mother, by his grandparents, and by the nuns who
taught him.

Thomas, says Noonan, did notq make it on his own but has been 
helped all his life by affirmative action.  

Noonan believes that because people helped Thomas, it shows that real
change in a democracy comes from the people up, not from the
government down. She thinks that the choice of Thomas is the peoples'
will.</SUM>
