<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880510-0178"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">   

Khalil Wazir, known by the code name, Abu-Jihad, and second in command
within the PLO, was assassinated on 16 April during a raid on his home
in Tunis. Unidentified Israeli officials said that an Israeli squad
did the killing. This touched off charges and counter-charges. The PLO
claimed that the United States knew of and approved plans for
assassinating Wazir. Yasser Arafat said that the United States was
planning to kill PLO officials if the PLO retaliated by taking action
against American citizens or facilities. The State Department denied
any such intention.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890704-0043"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

Suspected communist rebels killed Col. Herminio Taylo, the chief
police officer of Makati. The city is the major financial center of
the Philippines, and is Manila's twin city. The killing occurred in
broad daylight, and witnesses said that the assassins identified
themselves as NPAs, referring to the New People's Army. In the last
two weeks ten law enforcement officers have been killed in the Manila
area. The slaying came one day after the formation of a special task
force to deal with assassins. President Acquino expressed sorrow, and
urged the military and the police to be more vigilant.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0005"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

Carlos Pizzaro, the presidential candidate of the M-19 movement, was
gunned down Thursday on a plane enroute from Bogota to
Barranquilla. It is suspected that the assassin, who was killed
immediately, was employed by the Medellin drug cartel.  Pizzaro was
the third presidential candidate to be killed in Columbia. The
Patriotic Union Party candidate, Bernardo Jaramillo was assassinated
22 March. The government has refused a request to postpone the May 27
election. Senator Luis Carlos Galan, candidate of the Liberal Party
was assassinated last August. Since then more than 250 Columbians have
been killed by the drug traffickers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900428-0108"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

The assassination of a third presidential candidate has pushed
Columbia close to political chaos. The latest victim, Carlos Pizzaro,
candidate of the M-19 movement, was killed Thursday. Senator Lusi
Carlos Galan, candidate of the Liberal Party, was assassinated last
August. Bernardo Jaramillo, candidate of the Patriotic Union Party,
was killed last month in Bogota. The Medellin drug cartel is being
blamed for the assassinations. In the past nine months the drug
traffickers, acting against government steps to rein them in, have
killed nearly 300 Columbians. The government appears helpless. Some
suspect that the armed forces are allied with the drug traffickers and
right-wing death squads.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901013-0046"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

Rifaat el-Mahgoub, leader of the Egyptian parliament, and the second
highest ranking government official, was assassinated Friday. Five
others were killed by the assassins who rode motorbikes past
el-Mahgoub's automobile. They have not been apprehended.  Before
Friday there had been no assassinations in Egypt since the shooting of
President Anwar Sadat nine years ago. Friday's assassination is being
blamed on Iraqi agents. The Egyptian Interior Minister had warned that
Saddam Hussein was sending saboteurs into Egypt to assassinate
officials in retaliation for Egypt's support of the United States
during the Gulf War.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06143070"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

Rajiv Gandhi, Indian Prime Minister from 1984 to 1989, was
assassinated Thursday while campaigning in the state of Tamil
Nadu. His grandfather and his mother also served as Prime Ministers
and Congress Party leaders. Political observers say that Thursday's
assassination signals the end of a dynasty. Gandhi's Congress party is
being challenged by a center-left coalition and a right-wing
party. The election's first phase occurred on Monday, but the second
and third phases have been postponed to the 12th and 15th of June. The
military and paramilitary forces are combating widespread violence.
Guerrilla forces in Tamil Nadu are the prime suspects in Gandhi's
murder.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-23360"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

A Jordanian diplomat, Na'ib al-Ma'yitah, was assassinated in Beirut on
29 January. Less than one month later Lebanese security forces in
coordination with Jordanian forces had determined that the
assassination was planned and executed by Fatah-the Revolutionary
Council, the FRC, and Jordanian fundamentalist groups sponsored by
Iran. The FRC is the Abu-Nidal group, and it harbored a grudge against
Jordan ever since the group was expelled from that country. Thirty FRC
members have been arrested in Jordan. The FRC took immediate steps
after the assassination, moving personnel out of Lebanon to minimize
damage to the organization.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-11919"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

Luis Donaldo Colosio Murrieta, the presidential candidate of the
Mexican Revolutionary Party, PRI, was assassinated on 23 March in
Tijuana on the Baja California Peninsula.  The assassination was
widely covered in the foreign press. Spokespeople for the governments
of Columbia, Cuba, El Salvador and Venezuela separately condemned the
assassination, and each of the countries expressed their condolences
to the Mexican people. A liberal candidate in Columbia said that the
assassination was the result of "savage capitalism". The ruling party
in El Salvador called Colosio's death the "cowardly assassination
perpetrated by antidemocratic forces".</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-27602"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

The President of South Korea, Pak Chong-hui, was assassinated on
October 26, 1979 by then Central Intelligence Agency Director Kim
Chae-kyu. The investigation of others involved in the killing is still
going on 15 years after the murder. Yesterday there was news out of
Seoul concerning that investigation. One member of the joint
investigating team said that there was no concrete evidence that
General Chong Sung-hwa had been involved in the killing. Chong,
indicted in December 1979, is still not in the clear, but a formal end
of the probe is expected soon.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d37"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT944-18184"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">      

Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, the number two official in the ruling
Industrial Revolutionary Party, was assassinated last week. This was a
blow to Ernesto Zedillo, Mexico's incoming president, who hopes to
reform Mexico's governing party and the country's corrupt legal and
judicial systems. It was a setback because it is alleged that the
killing was ordered by a federal deputy and a second person with ties
to the Gulf drug cartel. It demonstrates that Zedillo's reform efforts
will meet fierce and violent opposition. Massieu's death suggests that
political reactionaries and drug traffickers were involved in the
March assassination of Luis Colosio.</SUM>
