<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP900713-0083 WSJ900718-0065 AP900714-0029 LA062090-0057 LA121990-0094
AP891206-0152 AP900714-0083 AP900808-0232 LA092790-0212 AP900712-0206"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">    
  
President George Bush's third son Neil played a part in the failure of
Silverado Savings and Loan by failing to disclose business connections
to borrowers. Cleanup could cost taxpayers $1 billion. Neil helped
arrange a $900,000 line of credit for real estate agent William
L. Walters, who invested $150,000 in Bush's oil exploration company
JNB Exploration. He also abstained from voting to forgive $11 million
in loans to real estate developer Kenneth M. Good, who invested
$100,000 in the commodities market on Neil's behalf and was preparing
to pay $3 million for an 80% interest in JNB. Good and Walters
defaulted on more than $130 million in Silverado loans.

President Bush pledged not to interfere with the investigation of his
son but may have requested his close friend, bank lobbyist Thomas
Ashley, to advise Neil. Ashley maintains that Neil made his own
decisions on courses of action.

Neil Mallon Bush was born January 22, 1955, overcame dyslexia, held
summer jobs with bank and oil equipment companies and spent a year
working on his father's campaign. He received an MBA from Tulane in
1979, then moved to Denver where he negotiated oil leases for Amoco
for two years before forming JNB with two partners. As the
Vice-President's son, 30-year old Neil was asked by Chairman Michael
R. Wise to join Silverado's board of directors, although the Office of
Thrift Supervision later called him unqualified and untrained for the
job. The board was a rubber stamp for manipulative managers who made
huge loans for risky real estate schemes with FDIC insured deposits.

Neil served as a Silverado director from 1985 to 1988, resigning
shortly after his father's nomination for president. He described
himself as "just a Denver guy trying to make a living and raise a
family," denied any wrongdoing and considered a future run for
Congress.  JNB was sold in 1989, never having found any oil, and Neil
became head of an oil and gas exploration company called Apex
Energy. Friends defended him as honest but naive.

In October 1988 Washington ordered a delay in closing Silverado until
after George Bush had won the presidential election. The OTS sought to
bar Neil from future service as a thrift director, but charges were
lessened and in December 1990 he was ordered to refrain from any
future violations of disclosure rules. The FDIC named him in a $200
million negligence suit against Silverado directors.  </SUM>
