<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891206-0152"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

Federal officials unconscionably delayed closing the troubled
Silverado Savings and Loan in Denver largely because Vice President
Bush's son Neil was on its board.  Silverado's loan portfolio was
described as comparable to a type of pyramid investment fraud known as
a Ponzi scheme. Neil Bush resigned from Silverado's board after his
father won the Republican nomination in 1988, four months before the
S&L's seizure.  The bank was closed on Dec. 9, 1988. There was
disagreement among bank regulators over whether Bush's presence on the
board affected their decisions. Bush said he would cooperate in any
way he was asked to.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="LA062090-0057" 
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 

The Republican-controlled Office of Thrift Supervision delayed action
on failed Silverado S&L, where Vice-president Bush's son Neil was a
director, until after the presidential election and then lessened
charges of dishonesty against Neil Bush, which he denies. Bush
abstained from voting on forgiving $11 million that Kenneth Good owed
to Silverado but did not disclose that Good was paying $3 million for
an 80% interest in Bush's oil exploration company. Good denied
expecting Neil to influence Silverado's approval of loans to him. Good
and another Bush investor defaulted on more than $130 million in
Silverado loans. The Silverado cleanup could cost taxpayers $1
billion.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="AP900712-0206"  
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  
      
President Bush pledged to vigorously prosecute S&L fraud and not
interfere with the investigation of his son Neil, whose integrity he
defended. Neil described himself as "just a Denver guy trying to make
a living and raise a family." He held summer jobs with bank and oil
equipment companies, worked on his father's campaign a year, received
an MBA in 1979, negotiated oil leases from 1980-82, and started his
own oil company. He was a director of Silverado S&L from 1985-88 and
says he is considering a future run for Congress as part of a shakeup
to increase congressional accountability.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"  
DOCREF="AP900713-0083"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 

Former Democratic Rep. Thomas Ashley, a close friend of President
Bush's since Yale and fellow Skull and Bones member, currently
president of a bank lobbying group in Washington, has been advising
Bush's son Neil on future questioning by federal banking regulators
about his role as a director in the failed Silverado S&L. Neil said
the asked Ashley to contact him but Ashley says he contacted Neil on
his own after reading about his troubles. He's been advising Neil on
the consequences of various courses of action but Neil has made his
own decisions. President Bush has been aware Ashley was counseling his
son.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"      
DOCREF="AP900714-0083"    
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  
    
Neil Bush came to Colorado to get rich in the oil business, but his
company, JNB Exploration, never found any oil and was sold in
1989. Bush made some money selling lease-hold interests and now heads
Apex Energy, an oil and gas exploration company.  His poise in the
spotlight led to suggestions of a political future for him, but now
angry at the attention he's receiving over his role in the collapse of
the Silverado S&L and at "government mismanagement" in selling off
troubled savings institutions. He and his wife Sharon and their three
children recently moved to a wealthier neighborhood for privacy.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900714-0029"  
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">    
   
Congressional Democrats are one signature short of the 12 votes needed
for a special prosecutor to examine the role of President Bush's son
Neil in the collapse of Silverado S&L after Rep. Feighan withdrew his
name. Neil says he never discussed S&L operations with his father, but
old presidential friend and banking lobbyist Thomas Ashley called the
president, who then requested Ashley to call Neil. Ashley denies he
was asked, says he is not trying to serve as a go-between for Neil and
the president, and says Neil made up his own mind to fight the case
and refuse to negotiate an out-of-court settlement.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="WSJ900718-0065" 
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Neil Bush says he's never traded on being the president's son, while
conceding in congressional testimony concerning his role in the failed
Silverado S&L that a risk-free $100,000 investment in the commodities
market on his behalf by Bush company investor Kenneth Good sounded a
little fishy.  He later helped Good receive a Silverado loan for an
Argentine project involving Bush's company.  Bush's friends call him
naive and unsophisticated. Bush was invited to join the Silverado
board at age 30 with no banking experience because of his name.  He
implies he was as ill prepared to be on the board as any of the
members.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="AP900808-0232"  
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  
   
Neil Mallon Bush, third son of the President, has become the poster
boy of the S&L scandal because of his involvement with the failed
Silverado S&L. Born January 22, 1955, Bush moved to Denver in 1980 and
negotiated oil leases for Amoco. He and two partners then started an
exploration company, into which developers Kenneth Good and Bill
Walters invested money despite lack of results. Because of his name,
Bush was invited onto the rubber-stamp board of Silverado, whose
manipulative management team made huge loans for risky real estate
schemes with FDIC insured deposits. Good and Walters defaulted on $117
million in Silverado loans.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"  
DOCREF="LA092790-0212"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
   
The code of ethics of the failed Silverado S&L where Neil Bush was a
director requires officials to avoid or report any situation that
appears to be a conflict of interest.  Bush is accused of ignoring
this by supporting further financing for big Silverado borrowers while
failing to inform colleagues that he had important business
connections with them. The Office of Thrift Supervision seeks a
cease-and-desist order barring Bush from future violation of conflict
of interest regulations and the FDIC names him in a $200 million suit
against Silverado directors. Bush supporters say he is an honest but
naive young man being persecuted because he is the President's son.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="LA121990-0094"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

An Office of Thrift Supervision judge ruled on December 18, 1990 that
President Bush's son Neil violated conflict-of-interest regulations in
the failure of Silverado S&L, of which he was a director. He
recommended that if Bush takes a position at a financial institution
in the future, he be required to obtain a lawyer's advice on potential
conflicts, make a full disclosure of his business deals annually, and
abstain from voting on issues where he has an interest. Bush contested
the allegations. If the ruling is upheld, he intends to take the
matter to federal appeals court.  </SUM>
