<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ910509-0079 WSJ910723-0081
WSJ911002-0141 WSJ911106-0050 WSJ910716-0009 WSJ910912-0105
WSJ911004-0092 WSJ910717-0134 WSJ910918-0146 WSJ911004-0218>
During consideration of the nomination of Robert Gates to be Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency in the summer of 1991, attention
returned to events in 1987 when Gates withdrew from consideration for
the same post because of the shadow of the Iran-Contra scandal. Now in
1991 Alan Fiers, former CIA Chief of Central American operations,
admitted that he knew of the illegal diversion of funds to the
Nicaraguan Contras, and that he relayed this knowledge to the CIA
chief of covert operations, Clair George, Gates's immediate
subordinate.  Many Democratic senators questioned Gates's claim to be
ignorant of these activities. Some of Gates's CIA associates testified
that Gates molded intelligence assessments to fit Director Casey's
preconceptions.

Gates, however, received the solid support of Republican senators and
of Senator David Boren (D. Okla.), Chairman of the Senate Intelligence
Committee who, in turn, persuaded Democratic chairmen Pell (Foreign
Relations) and Nunn (Armed Services) to back Gates.

Fiers's testimony and Gates's apparent memory lapses reflected
negatively upon the nominee. Gates strongly denied the charge that he
tailored intelligence reports to fit Casey's prejudices but there was
testimony and argument on both sides of the issue.

Gates's Republican support stood firm and with the endorsement of key
Democratic senators, he was confirmed in early November 1991 by a
64-31 vote.  
</SUM>


