<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910509-0079 WSJ910723-0081
WSJ911002-0141 WSJ911106-0050 WSJ910716-0009 WSJ910912-0105
WSJ911004-0092 WSJ910717-0134 WSJ910918-0146 WSJ911004-0218>
Central Intelligence Agency in May 1991 was Robert Gates, Deputy
National Security Advisor. Gates had been nominated for the post in
1987 when he was Deputy Director of CIA under William Casey, but he
withdrew his name in the face of complaints that he had either
tolerated or remained ignorant American operations, Alan Fiers,
pleaded guilty in the Iran-Contra case, raising the issue again.

Fiers said he knew of the illegal diversion of funds to the Nicaraguan
Contras, and relayed this knowledge to the CIA chief of covert
operations, Clair George, Gates's immediate subordinate. Many
Democratic senators questioned Gates's claim that he was completely
unaware of these activities. If he was kept in the dark by Casey's
cutting him off from details of the illicit program, they argued, then
he had failed at his job of overseeing the agency.

Several CIA associates of Gates testified that he molded intelligence
assessments to fit the preconceptions of his opinionated boss, William
Casey, placing his own personal advancement above intellectual
integrity.

Gates was not without advocates, however, claiming the solid support
of Republican senators and, perhaps most importantly, of Democratic
Senator David Boren, Chairman of the Senate Intelligence
Committee. Boren persuaded the Democratic chairmen of Foreign
Relations (Pell) and Armed Services (Nunn) Committees to join him in
backing Gates.

Hearings were postponed until September to allow testimony from the
key Iran-Contra figures, Fiers and George. Their testimony and Gates's
apparent memory lapses reflected negatively upon the nominee. One
witness commented, "The forgetfulness of this brilliant
officer--gifted with photographic memory--does not to me instill
confidence." To his CIA antagonists Gates replied that there was no
truth in the charge that he tailored intelligence reports to fit
Casey's prejudices. The hearings continued into October and November.

Editorial opinion varied from strong opposition to Gates on the
Iran-Contra issue to avid support based on his "reformist" approach to
intelligence analysis, throwing off hide-bound bureaucratic blinders
to reveal the true nature of the Soviet economy.

Through all the argument Gates's Republican support stood firm and
with the endorsement of key Democratic senators he was confirmed in
early November 1991 by a 64-31 roll-call vote.  
</SUM>























































