<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870306-0171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

De Beers Consolidated Mines of South Africa, the sole middleman in a
diamond cartel known as the Syndicate, controls 80% of the world's
uncut diamond market. It is again flourishing after near extinction in
1983, having convinced the industry it was indispensable by putting
millions into diamond promotion, forcing members to rejoin by dumping
diamonds, and boycotting dealers who reject offered merchandise. De
Beers' rise dates from 1938 when it began urging couples to buy
diamond engagement rings.  Future challenges include nations wanting
more control over distribution, cheaper diamonds on the market, and a
possible US ban on South African diamond imports.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870908-0047"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

South Africa's De Beers Consolidated Mines, which controls 80% of the
world diamond market through its London-based Central Selling
Organization, is raising its diamond prices an average 10%. Rough
diamonds were already trading at a premium over De Beers' own quotes
on the open market, especially in the Far East. In Japan, the second
biggest diamond-jewelry market after the US, appreciation of the yen
reduced diamonds' cost. Per-carat prices of D-flawless diamonds have
risen to $14,800 from $12,000 since the beginning of the year. De
Beers revived diamond trade from an early-80s slump through an
aggressive marketing campaign and withholding stocks.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890131-0280"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

The British Office of Fair Trading is investigating whether De Beers'
Central Selling Organization, which controls 80 percent of world
diamond trading, engages in anti- competitive practices. First it has
to establish whether it has jurisdiction, since although CSO is based
in London, De Beers is a South African company. Consolidated Gold
Fields PLC, a British mining concern with no diamond interests, filed
the complaint as a defensive move against a takeover bid by
Luxembourg-based Minorco SA, which is majority-owned by Anglo American
Corp of South Africa Ltd and De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd, the gold
and diamond mining interests controlled by South Africa's Oppenheimer
family.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0192"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

The De Beers diamond cartel faces declining sales because of slowing
economies, high interest rates and price increases. Also, newly
energized black majorities are pressuring it to give producers better
terms. South Africa's major sources of wealth may be nationalized and
Namibia may demand a one-fifth stake in De Beers' local subsidiary. To
limit risk, De Beers is moving half its interests to Switzerland. De
Beers was formed in 1888 by British colonialist Cecil Rhodes. Diamond
merchant Ernest Oppenheimer became board chairman in 1929 and formed
the cartel, led after him by his son Harry who made the company more
international and less vulnerable.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-3463"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Botswana's contract with De Beers, which controls 80% of the world
diamond market, has expired and Botswana wants to partly sell
independently. It is the only major diamond producer currently selling
total production to De Beers, who argues independent selling would
compromise the cartel's ability to preserve an orderly market. IDC, an
independent who markets diamonds for four countries, refutes this and
argues Botswana doesn't know the real value of its diamonds, which
represent half De Beers' profits.  Botswana faces a budget deficit.
In 1987 it sold its diamond stockpile to De Beers for $250 million and
a 5.27% share.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-7126"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

A recent diamond rush after a small discovery is unlikely to make
development of Canada's first diamond mine worthwhile. In Angola,
illegal mining began in May 1991 when a peace accord allowed freedom
of movement. The De Beers cartel is trying to buy up the $1 million a
day in diamonds being smuggled out to preserve market stability, which
it does by maintaining a buffer pool of diamonds and matching supply
to demand.  After 1980s speculators were bankrupted when recession
forced them to dump diamonds faster than the cartel could buy them, it
has educated banks to discourage lending to speculators.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5859"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

Harry Oppenheimer and son Nicholas, whose family controls the De Beers
diamond cartel, will visit Russia next week to ensure continued De
Beers grip on the Russian diamond market. The Soviet Union signed a
five-year sales contract with the cartel in 1990. After the country's
break-up De Beers signed a sales agreement with the autonomous
republic Yukutia, where most Russian diamonds are mined. Yukutia plans
a joint-stock company and opposes a Russian parliament plan for
exclusive rights to buy all diamonds mined in the Russian
Federation. Unofficial Russian diamond exports have been rumored and
two Belgian traders have been temporarily barred from De Beers
sales.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8941"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">     

Investors are being sought for a diamond mine in Zimbabwe which De
Beers discovered in 1975 but gave up rights to in 1991 because of the
political situation and failing to reach a marketing agreement with
the Zimbabwe government. De Beers bulldozed the site before leaving
and all documentation about deposits disappeared. Mr. Robin Baxter-
Brown, one of the new joint owners of River Ranch Mine, started his
career with De Beers and has 36 years of diamond exploration
experience. The deposit is estimated as 17.5 million tonnes, 60% of
gem quality, and there is likely another deposit nearby.  Mining began
in March.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-5628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">    

Because of a flood of diamonds from Angola and diamond "leaks" outside
Russia's contract with the cartel, De Beers imposed quotas on
producers and is operating its newest mine below capacity. Venetia
came into production in July 1992 at a cost of $400 million. It gives
De Beers direct control over more than 50% of the world's gem diamond
output and a powerful negotiating position within the cartel. The mine
employs fewer people than in the past because of highly automated
processing and fewer overseers. It busses in workers from their home
towns for 12-hour shifts instead of using migrant workers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d43"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-4951"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

De Beers' 100-year old Kimberley diamond mines are running out but it
is maintaining output and market stability in the face of Russian
export uncertainty by expanding other mines. Millions are being put
into the Jwaneng mine in Botswana to continue open pit digging for 35
years, after which mining may go underground. Jwaneng, the richest
diamond mine in the world, is co-owned by Botswana and De Beers and is
the major Botswana revenue source. At the De Beers-owned Finsch mine
in South Africa, digging has gone underground to give the mine another
35-40 years of life, with remote- controlled trucks digging out
material in dangerous areas.</SUM>
