<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890403-0123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

According to the National Weather Service and other sources, most
tornadoes occur between 3 and 6 PM and travel from southwest to
northeast.  A thunderstorm next to large hail is where tornadoes
originate.

In 1988, 32 deaths occurred, well below the average of 99 per year.
Only two percent of all tornadoes are violent with speeds of 200
m.p.h.  They travel only an average of 26 miles but the longest one
traveled 219 miles in 1925.  Forward speeds are between 30-70 m.p.h.
The largest outbreak on record was in 1974 when 148 storms killed 300
people in 13 states.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890227-0016"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

The arrival of spring in Texas and other states in the U.S. heartland
brings with it the tornado season.  To keep loss of life and property
damage to a minimum, the National Weather Service and emergency
personnel advise the following: a.  Make safety plans before a tornado
strikes.

b. Know the difference between a tornado watch (conditions suitable
for tornado development) and a tornado warning (one has already
developed.)

c. A warning means to take cover immediately and stay inside.  If in a
car or mobile home, take cover in a ditch.  If at home, stay in the
basement or a shelter.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880331-0140"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

Changing spring weather in the U.S. often brings with it the violence
of tornadoes.  In 1988 there were fewer than normal deaths but there
were over 700 tornadoes. Weather officials believe that public
preparedness is responsible for the fewer deaths.

The number of tornadoes peaks in May.  They usually occur between noon
and sunset.  Hot weather helps to form thunderstorms and their
accompanying tornadoes.

The weather services advise:

a. Turn on radios and televisions for tornado information.

b. Go to the basement of a house or building, staying away from
windows and outside walls.

c.  If in a car or trailer, leave immediately.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880419-0131"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

Today, the 19th of April, 1988, is a day that will live in the memory
of residents of Madison, Florida.

A tornado plowed through this town of 3500 people at dawn.  It
destroyed homes, a college library, killed four people and injured 15.
It cut a 12-mile path of destruction.

Mobile homes took the brunt of the tornado's fury.  Other adjacent
counties in northeast Florida were also hit by separate tornadoes.

The neighboring state of Georgia was also hit by hail storms, high
winds, heavy rain and tornadoes. Once again, a number of mobile homes
were destroyed or damaged.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0191"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

The following summarizes the destruction by tornadoes and
thunderstorms on 15 and 16 November, 1989:

Southeast (Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
Carolina): Seventeen people were killed and 514 injured by tornadoes.
Damage was in the millions with houses destroyed and damaged.
Flooding occurred in some areas.

Mid-Atlantic (New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, District of
Columbia, Maryland): Eight people were killed and 22 injured from
heavy thunderstorms and high winds.

Great Lakes (Illinois, Indiana, Ohio): One person was killed and two
people injured from tornadoes and strong winds which destroyed 15
homes and ripped roofs off of others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0115"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

The following is a summary of the tornadoes that swept through
Huntsville, Alabama and a number of other states on 15 and 16
November, 1989:

In Huntsville, rescuers continued to search for victims of a tornado
that left 17 dead, 463 injured and 1000 homeless.  There was no
warning when it hit at rush hour.  Some residents had their own
personal accounts of the tornado's fury.  Huntsville's officials were
preparing a request for federal aid.

Tornado watches were issued for the Northeast.  Other tornadoes struck
over a period of 48 hours in the Mid-Atlantic, Mid-West and Southeast
states.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900619-0006"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

1990 has been a disastrous year so far due to tornadoes and floods in
the mid-western and southern U.S.  An above-average 726 tornadoes,
some more violent than in the past, have touched down as of 19 June.
The cause is a West Coast pattern of low pressure that keeps the jet
stream at a more southern latitude. There may be some relief to this
pattern soon.

Computers have helped the watch, warning and response system in
keeping the death toll down.

Flooding in the South and the Plains since April has also added to the
loss of life and property damage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070190-0073"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">

Tetsuya Fujita, a science professor at the University of Chicago, is
one of the world's foremost authorities on tornadoes.  Today, 1 July
1990, one would probably find Fujita in his laboratory seeking new
data about the workings of tornadoes.

He simulates miniature tornadoes with the use of fans, adding steam to
make the results visible. Fujita has helped to define the conditions
that develop tornadoes and he originated a scale for measuring their
intensity.  Fujita identified air currents called microbursts which
have caused air crashes.

He convinced the FAA to deploy doppler radar that detects microbursts
and thus aircraft can be redirected.</SUM>
