<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880217-0175"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Forty Congressmen teamed with the Federation for American Immigration
Reform in suing the Census Bureau to force the agency to delete
illegal aliens from its count in 1990.  The group contends that the
estimated two million or more illegal aliens will cause unfair shifts
in House of Representative seats from one state to another.  The
Bureau says it is required by the Constitution to count everyone,
regardless of citizenship.  Prior to the 1980 census, a federal court
upheld this approach.  Representative Tom Ridge, R-Pa., suggests
devising a system to count illegal aliens, but then disallowing their
numbers for reapportionment purposes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880330-0119"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The Census Bureau is under pressure from two groups to make changes in
the way it conducts the 1990 count.  One group wants to exclude
illegal aliens.  Another group wants to include people who may be
overlooked, specifically, blacks and Hispanics living in urban areas.
Experts with the independent Population Reference Bureau believe that
the results from doing both would almost balance each other out.  The
only shift in House seats from these counting changes would be that
California will get one less seat and Georgia one more.  Continuing a
decades long trend, the Northeast and Midwest will lose seats
regardless.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880623-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

Lawmakers are debating whether following the Constitution by counting
illegal aliens in the census results in a system that is unfair to
citizens.  Because there is a 435-seat limit, when one state gains a
congressional House seat, another must lose one.  Representative Tim
Valentine, D-NC, contends that counting illegal aliens grants
congressional representation to people who entered this country by
breaking our laws.  However, Representative Don Edwards, D-CA, argued
that every census since the Constitution was adopted has counted both
legal and illegal aliens.  It was never the intent of the framers to
include only citizens for apportionment purposes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071589-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The U.S. Senate, possibly unconstitutionally, voted to exclude illegal
aliens from the 1990 census.  Although some state officials are
worried about the bills effect on federal aid and apportionment, many
are unsure of its possible impact.  California is thought to have at
least half of the nation's estimated 3 to 8 million illegal aliens.
Officials there fear loss of both federal aid and a House seat or two
if illegal aliens are not counted.  New York and Illinois, two other
high alien states, may help to defeat the bill in the House.  The bill
is part of an overhaul of our immigration laws.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890719-0225"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

Senator Richard Shelby, D-AL, sponsored the passed immigration bill
amendment to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process.
The amendment instructs the Secretary of Commerce to make such
population adjustments using methods and procedures as determined
feasible and appropriate.  Opponents say it's unconstitutional; our
founders wanted everyone counted for apportionment.  Proponents say
that our founders had no concept of illegal aliens because they didn't
exist prior to immigration restrictions that began in 1875.  The
Supreme Court may have to decide.  After the 1980 census, the
government estimated there were 2.57 million illegal aliens in the
U.S.  Some other guesses were far higher.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890802-0064"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The House will not exclude illegal aliens from the census numbers used
for reapportionment.  In related action, it voted to include overseas
military personnel.  The Commerce Department will work with the
Defense Department to count these people.  Rep. Tom Ridge, R-Pa.,
unsuccessfully sought to attach a ban on counting illegal aliens to an
appropriations bill that provided funding to the State, Justice and
Commerce Departments.  Census officials oppose any attempt to delete
illegal aliens, contending they cannot accurately determine who is in
this category.  Furthermore, it may cause people to lie or refuse to
participate in the count, thus complicating the census'
accuracy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ890828-0011"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The Senate has contentiously voted to exclude illegal immigrants from
congressional reapportionment numbers.  The House may follow.  The
debate, often couched in constitutional arguments, is largely driven
by politics and geography.  Counting illegal immigrants in 1990 will
most likely result in one more seat for California and one less for
Pennsylvania.  However, seats for Connecticut, Michigan, North
Carolina and Alabama are also at risk, while Texas, Florida and New
York might benefit.  All sides expect a lawsuit.  In 1980, a federal
appeals court upheld the current system of counting illegal aliens.
This year a federal district court ruled similarly.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The Senate has voted to bar the Census Bureau from including illegal
aliens in the 1990 census.  Federal aid to states is frequently based
on these counts, so millions of dollars of funds that are made
available on a per capita basis could be affected.  A Senate-House
conference committee will soon decide if this Senate prohibition will
be retained in a Commerce Department appropriations bill.  Secretary
of Commerce Mosbacher said he would ask President Bush to veto any
bill with such a provision.  Undersecretary of Commerce Darby says,
"There really is a widespread realization that this would not only be
unconstitutional but literally impossible."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0126"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

In a blow to California, the Senate voted to bar the counting of
illegal aliens in the 1990 census.  Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif. said
the vote is unfair to states that have a huge influx of immigration
beyond legal limits.  State officials believe California could lose up
to $300 million in federal aid if illegal aliens went uncounted.
Santa Ana estimates its potential loss at $2 million a year.  Concern
was also expressed that this measure would promote fear and
intimidation in the Latino community.  Sen. Moynihan, D-N.Y., believes
that "Fiddling with the numbers" now will destroy confidence in the
census results.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102189-0151"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="B">      

The Orange County Social Services Agency said that excluding illegal
aliens from the census would show a county with 200,000 fewer
residents than its actual population.  The lower figure would result
in an estimated $56 million loss each year in federal revenue.  Santa
Ana, home to 44.5% of the county's Latinos, estimates it was
shortchanged 50,000 people in the 1980 census, which cost it
approximately $2.2 million each year in state and federal revenue.
Efforts in including illegal aliens in the census received a major
boost when negotiators from the U.S. House-Senate conference committee
worked out an agreement on the issue.</SUM>
