
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910627-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910627-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Voters in Poll Say Sununu Should Stay
   In Post, Though Negative Rating Rises
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/27/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Embattled White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu, fighting for his political survival, has a rare bit
of good news: While Americans generally don't approve of his
actions, most don't think he should resign.
   In a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, voters were
asked whether charges of inappropriate use of government and
corporate transportation by Mr. Sununu are so serious that he
should resign. More than 80% of the voters surveyed were
aware of the flap, and among them, a clear majority, 58%,
said the assertions aren't serious enough for him to resign.
Just 33% said he should quit. The remainder either didn't
have an opinion or refused to answer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even among Democrats, 49% didn't think he should resign,
while 42% thought he should.
   That hardly means Mr. Sununu is out of the woods, of
course. Though President Bush says Mr. Sununu's job is safe
for now, the ruckus over the chief of staff's extensive use
of government and corporate jets and cars has brought to the
surface a host of Sununu enemies who are likely to keep
gunning for his demise.
   And while voters aren't clamoring for Mr. Sununu's head,
they have formed a more negative impression of him. The
survey found that 41% of voters have a negative view of the
chief of staff, while just 10% said they have positive
feelings. Last October, the view wasn't so clearly negative.
Then, just 20% said they had negative feelings about Mr.
Sununu, while 18% reported positive feelings.
   The Journal/NBC poll was conducted jointly by Democratic
pollster Peter Hart and Republican pollster Robert Teeter.
They canvassed 1,006 registered voters by telephone from last
Saturday through Tuesday, a period when the latest flap over
Mr. Sununu's failure to inform the White House counsel's
office accurately about the procurement of a corporate jet he
used to attend a Chicago fund-raiser was in full swing.
   The poll's findings are likely to fuel arguments by Mr.
Sununu's supporters that the controversy over his travel
isn't being taken as seriously in the country at large as it
is inside Washington.
   Mr. Sununu admitted that he made mistakes in using
government planes and his White House car for personal and
political business, and he has adopted a low profile. He
appears to be calculating that he can ride out the storm.
   The criticism isn't likely to stop, though. Enemies of the
combative Mr. Sununu are trying to capitalize on his weakened
position to hurt him, largely through anonymous criticisms
and attacks. Some administration aides and Republican
strategists are arguing, for instance, that he now is a clear
political liability and should be pushed aside before Mr.
Bush's re-election campaign gets into full swing.
   There also is quiet lobbying against Mr. Sununu by
Israel's supporters, who long have been suspicious of him
because of his links to Arab-American groups and his refusal
as governor of New Hampshire to endorse a proclamation
condemning a United Nations vote equating Zionism with
racism. Israel backers, for instance, have been circulating a
1988 proclamation he signed as governor honoring the crew of
the Liberty, a U.S. ship attacked by Israeli forces under
murky circumstances during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

