
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ910620-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
910620-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sununu Will
   Continue to Use
   Corporate Jets
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/20/91
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- White House Chief of Staff John Sununu has
used five different corporate jets to travel to Republican
fund-raisers in the past six weeks, and the White House said
he will continue to use such jets rather than government
planes for political travel.
   Meanwhile, President Bush said Mr. Sununu's use of a
government limousine for a trip to a stamp auction in New
York last week had created an "appearance problem." But Mr.
Bush, in his most extensive comments so far on Mr. Sununu's
controversial travel practices, also strongly defended his
chief of staff. The president denied he was angry with Mr.
Sununu and said his job was safe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In response to questions about Mr. Sununu's recent shift
to use of corporate jets in the wake of restrictions imposed
last month on his use of government planes, the White House
released the list of five jets the chief of staff has used
for travel to fund-raisers.
   The identity of owners of two of the jets already had been
publicized, and the others are not large national
corporations. White House counsel C. Boyden Gray's office
approved all the travel in advance, and he vetoed some
suggested corporate jets because of potential conflicts of
interest, White House officials said.
   Use of corporate jets for political travel is legal
provided the corporation is reimbursed for providing the ride
or reports the travel as an "in-kind" political contribution.
Reimbursement for Mr. Sununu's travel often is made by the
host of the political fund-raiser he is attending.
   The White House list said that on May 20 Mr. Sununu used a
corporate jet provided by Donald Bryant, a benefits and
insurance executive, to travel to a St. Louis fund-raiser for
Missouri Gov. John Ashcroft. On June 7, Mr. Sununu used a jet
provided by Fiber Materials Inc. of Biddeford, Maine, to
travel to a fund-raiser for the Maine Republican party.
   Mr. Sununu used a jet provided by three individual owners
-- identified by the White House as Howard Bender, Martin
Bender and John Mason -- to travel to a Chicago fund-raiser
June 11. The next day, as previously reported, Mr. Sununu
used a jet provided by Beneficial Corp., a financial
management and planning concern, to return from a fund-raiser
for the New Jersey state party. He had taken his White House
limousine to reach nearby New York to attend a stamp auction
before that event.
   And, as also previously disclosed, Mr. Sununu used a jet
provided by KVI, an Iowa insurance brokerage firm, to travel
Tuesday to a fund-raiser in Des Moines.
   Mr. Sununu has resorted to regular use of corporate planes
for political travel in the wake of controversy over his
heavy use of costly government aircraft for political and
personal travel in the past two years. White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater said that use of corporate planes for
political purposes is a "well-established practice" that Mr.
Sununu will continue.
   President Bush rose to the defense of his embattled chief
of staff, while also making clear he is chagrined about the
travel controversy. The president said that Mr. Sununu is
"doing a first-class job" and that there is a "piling-on
syndrome" feeding the publicity about his travel.
   But Mr. Bush, who spoke to reporters before a White House
meeting as Mr. Sununu sat nearby, also seemed to suggest that
he would like his chief of staff to avoid creating new travel
controversies. "I think when you have an appearance problem,
I think all of us would agree you want to try to avoid it as
much as possible, and I think all of us have," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

