<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881211-0027"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">       

The chairman of the House Agriculture Committee says hearings are
planned next year into how the U.S. Forest Service handled lost
summer's stubborn wildfires that scorched the West.  The U.S. Forest
service said 5 million acres were charred in the raging blazes,
including 706,000 acres in Yellowstone.  The Forest and National Park
Service spent a combined $300 million fighting the summer fires.  The
most severe were in and around Yellowstone and Alaska, although there
were fires in the South, California and the Pacific Northwest.
Drought conditions and high winds helped make the 1988 fires the worst
in a hundred years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890801-0025"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Fire has charred more than 1.3 million acres of forest and range land
since January in the contiguous United States, compared to 2.1 million
acres by this time last year, fire officials said Monday.  Nearly
10,000 firefighters in five Western states are battling hundreds of
blazes, most of them sparked by lightening.

Spotty rain and local areas of dry weather have replaced the widespread drought of 1988; 
however, this season is just starting and a dry August could change everything.  By the of 
last year, 6 million acres had burned in the West and Alaska, making 1988 the worst fire 
season in 30 years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890805-0126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Lightening has set the West ablaze this summer.  Hundreds of fires
burned fitfully in the Idaho backcountry for days after the last
"lightning bust."  One storm laid down 2,000 strikes an hour with
little rain.  According to Reeve Jarvis of the Boise Interagency Fire
Center some of the worst blazes can be seen from their windows.  Some
of the Worst fires burn within 150 miles of the command post.  After
five dry summers, backcountry timber has a moisture content only
slightly higher than kiln-dried lumber.  It will take fall rains and
winter snow to douse many of the nation's fires.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0227"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

The new year ushers in a new wildfire season in Cooke City, Montana
while residents reflect on last season's wildfires in the tourist town
on the northeastern corner of Yellowstone National Park.  For two
months last summer the citizens of Cooke City and its tiny suburb,
Silver Gate, were showcased on the nightly TV news splashed across the
front pages of the nation's newspapers as forest fires threatened to
burn them out.  Their economically critical summer tourist season a
bust and the hunting season crippled had to wait until mid-September
to pick up the pieces.  The residents hope to never go through another
summer like the last one.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012090-0090"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Most Californians would agree that the hills and canyons are among he
most desirable places to live.  But these wild, yet settled, places at
the edge of the metropolis are the properties most threatened by
wildfire.

While little can be done to control the natural fires that occur,
homeowners can change their approach to landscaping and help improve
the chances of their homes and property surviving a brush fire.

While no plant is fireproof, some are more flammable than others.  A
line of defense against fire can be designed in the landscaping by
carefully selecting the plants that that will go in the garden around
the home.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA052289-0050"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

In Yellowstone National Park last summer's spectacular season of fire
scorched enough timber and meadow to rival Rhode Island in size.
Despite infernos that whipped through the treetops like blast
furnaces, most of the pristine landscape emerged unscathed.

Spring has come and arguments still rage over the impact of the fires
on wildlife, the conduct of officials responsible for monitoring the
blazes.  While the response from tourists is still questionable, the
park is bracing for an unprecedented onslaught of scientists looking
into fire behavior patterns, its effects on grizzly bears, fisheries,
grasslands and the nesting status of bald eagles.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06071022"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Foresters say the heavy rains that have pelted California in the past
two weeks have worsened the threat of fierce forest fires this summer
because they will stimulate the growth of grasses.  The grasses will
turn paper-dry by July helping to spread fires quickly through trees
and brush killed and weakened by five consecutive years of drought and
by insects which more easily invade dry wood than moist.

Other states at risk of severe fires takes in about a third of the
United States mainland, including Oregon and Washington east of the
Cascades and much of Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho,
Montana and the Dakotas.</SUM>



<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081490-0030"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

The 80,000 men and women that battle wildfires have more to worry
about besides the flames or heat or falling debris.  Their health is
under siege from the poisonous stew of gases and soot in wildfire
smoke.  Among the culprits are carbon monoxide, which slows reaction
and impairs judgement; microscopic particles of carbon that lodge in
the lungs; aldehydes and acids that irritate air passages,
hydrocarbon-bases substances and other chemicals that can damage genes
and cause cancer, test show. Health experts also suspect that exposure
to wildfire smoke may accelerate aging, prompt fatal heart attacks or
cancer and trigger respiratory diseases such as chronic bronchitis or
asthma.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06142126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

The December freeze in California killed heavy brush and millions of
trees that are now primed to burn.  March rains nurtured grass that
soon will turn tinder dry.  All that after five years of drought
parched the landscape.  Unless an unusually cool summer intervenes,
these are the ingredients for what could become one of the worst
wildfire seasons in California's history. Firefighters are most
concerned about rural areas of the South Bay and East Bay where people
have built homes among heavy vegetation.  The California Department of
Forestry and Fire Protection advises residents of rural areas to take
special precautions to protect their homes from wildfires this
summer.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051590-0065"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Prolonged drought, bark beetles and a rare fungus are drying out and
killing brush and trees that surround many Southern California
neighborhoods, creating the potential for one of the worst wildfire
seasons in decades.  A map released Monday by the Los Angeles County
Fire Department showed that some of the most vulnerable fire zones can
be found this summer in chaparral-covered foothill and mountain-canyon
slopes beside densely developed residential districts if Los Angeles
and its suburbs. Each densely thicketed acre of hillside chaparral
contains about 60 tons of brush that creates about the same fuel
energy as 3,750 gallons of gasoline.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06301029"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Local firefighters in the South Bay area are looking at the hills and
wondering not whether, but only when and where.  Severe firestorms
have already devastated the Oakland hills. Fire officials have
pinpointed ten areas that show the greatest potential for severe
firestorms.  These areas are heavily wooded, with wood homes, and
shake roofs with winding roads that make travel difficult in an
emergency.  Local fire officials point out that deliberately set fires
increase the danger and frequency of the problem.  Privacy has a high
price.  City dwellers are attracted to the wooded seclusion but exact
a cost in fire protection according to rescue workers.</SUM>
