<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6455"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B">

American insurers today face huge losses as Hurricane Andrew heads
across the Gulf of Mexico after slamming directly into Miami where it
did massive damage.  Furthermore, there could be severe flooding if it
hits low lying New Orleans, or extensive damage to oil industry
facilities along the coast or offshore in the Gulf.  A United Kingdom
adjuster estimates that losses could reach $15 billion.  This compares
with $4 billion for Hugo, the last major Hurricane to hit the U.S.
The brunt of losses will be with US insurers because they have in
recent years placed fewer of their risks with Lloyd's of London.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6110"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

It is estimated that damage caused by Hurricane Andrew could rise to
$20 billion, making it one on the costliest storms of the century.
Twelve lives have been lost in the US, three in the Bahamas.  The town
of Homestead, Florida, 10-15 miles south of Miami was largely
flattened, including the local air force base.  The storm has still
not reached landfall along the Gulf coast.  Companies with heavy storm
exposure are State Farm, Allstate, American International Group,
Hartford, Aetna and Travellers.  State Farm believes it had roughly
20% of the Florida market; 12% of Travellers' home insurance premium
came from Florida.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6038"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Yesterday, Hurricane Andrew, after smashing its way through Louisiana,
was downgraded to a tropical storm, in that its sustained wind speeds
were below 75 mph.  The storm narrowly missed the city of New Orleans
and caused little damage to Louisiana's oil industry.  Damage,
estimated at more than $15 billion, was mostly to uninsured property
in Florida and occurred in a 10-mile wide band 25 miles south of
Miami.  Insurer's losses are believed to be less than $1 billion.
Hurricane Hugo, which devastated much of South Carolina in 1989
causing an estimated $6-10 billion in damage, cost the insurance
industry some $4.2 billion.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5797"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Louisiana began a massive rebuilding effort after Hurricane Andrew
flattened whole districts, killing two people and injuring dozens.
Main industries such as oysters, alligators, cotton and sugar cane are
threatened; however, the oil industry was barely affected.  The
Federal Emergency Management Agency is setting aside $77 million to
help.  Meanwhile, local officials in Florida, where 15 people died,
are critical of the delay in supplying food, drinking water and
supplies for thousands in need.  One in eight Dade County residents
lost their homes, approximately a quarter of a million people.
Florida damage is in the $20-30 billion range.  President Bush has
ordered troops to Florida.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5835"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Insurance companies are trying to determine their claims costs from
Hurricane Andrew damage.  There are damage estimates of up to $20
billion, but most damage was not insured.  Some loss adjusters believe
all claims could run as high as $8 billion, but others have placed
estimates as low as $1 billion.  General Accident, the leading British
insurer, estimates their claims could cost as much as $40 million.
This is the amount at which their externally purchased catastrophe
reinsurance coverage is triggered, meaning, losses greater than this
$40 million threshold would be paid by other reinsurance companies and
not by General Accident.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5267"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

Industry authorities say US insurers expect to pay an estimated $7.3
billion for Hurricane Andrew claim damage in Florida.  This amount
does not include projected costs for claims in Louisiana.  On Florida
claims alone, Andrew becomes the costliest single insured catastrophe
in US history.  In total, projected Andrew claims will exceed the
record $7.6 paid out in 1989 for Hurricane Hugo ($4.2 billion) and the
Loma Prieta earthquake in California.  The Los Angeles riots earlier
this year, the most expensive civil disturbance ever, cost $775
million.  The property-casualty industry is thought to have adequate
funds to cover the Hurricane Andrew disaster.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5089"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

After a poor initial response, President Bush seems finally to be
getting disaster assistance to those in need.  The Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) was apparently caught completely unprepared
by Hurricane Andrew.  Bush, in a brief but poignant address from the
Oval Office, committed the government to pay for disaster relief.  He
also pledged to rebuild Homestead AFB, a major area employer.  The
arrival in Florida of the military and the attention of Mr. James
Baker and Transportation Secretary Andrew Card have helped greatly.
While Bush's actions enabled him to gain politically, his election
rival, Bill Clinton, could do little more than offer sympathy.</SUM>
