<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890228-0019"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Earthquake deaths in 1988 were the highest since 1976.  An Armenian
quake killed 25,000.  Other quakes in the Soviet Union, and on the
borders of India and Nepal, and China and Burma accounted for another
2,000 deaths.  The Armenian quake had a magnitude of 6.8.  An
earthquake is considered significant if its magnitude is 6.5.
Overall, 61 quakes fell in this category in 1988, 15 fewer than the
year before.  Three significant earthquakes were recorded in the US,
one of magnitude 7.6 in the Gulf of Alaska, but only minor damage
resulted.  Japan, usually seismically active had only one significant
quake, causing only minor injuries.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891017-0204"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

The magnitude 6.9 earthquake which struck 75 miles south of San
Francisco occurred in a region targeted by seismologists as having the
highest probability of a strong quake in Northern California.  The US
Geologic Survey last year gave a 30% chance for a strong quake in the
Santa Cruz mountains by the year 2018.  Initial reports indicated
widespread damage to highways and old masonry buildings.  The USGS
says the highest probability for a California earthquake of high
magnitude is in the town of Parkfield, where they give a 90% chance
for a magnitude 6 earthquake by the year 2018.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891028-0022"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

An earthquake of magnitude 7.2 shook the Solomon Islands today (28
October) the USGS reported.  It was the largest there since 7.4 quake
in 1978.  There were no immediate reports or injury or damage, but
quakes in that area usually don't cause much because it is sparsely
populated and not developed.  No Pacific-wide tsunami was generated by
the quake.  Earlier in the year, an 8.3 quake hit the Macquarie
Islands south of Australia.  A 7 magnitude earthquake is considered
major and is capable of heavy damage.  A magnitude 8 quake is a
"great" quake capable of tremendous damage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110589-0082"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

Chile is the world's most seismic country.  It has 2,270 miles of its
coast located along an earthquake fault.  A few months before the
great San Francisco earthquake of 1906, an 8.5 quake destroyed the
Chilian city of Valparaiso.  Chile has the distinction of having the
strongest earthquake ever recorded: a magnitude 9.5 in 1960 struck an
area about 600 miles long in Southern Chile.  That quake caused the
coast south of Concepcion to drop nine feet and killed 5,000 people in
the sparsely populated area.  Tsunamis from it caused damage as far
away as Hawaii and Japan.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900918-0121"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

Iben Browning, a scientist who had picked the correct dates of four
large earthquakes since 1971 has said that the New Madrid area of
Missouri has a 50-50 chance of producing a magnitude 7 earthquake on
December 3rd.  He bases his predictions on tidal forces caused by
positions of the sun and the moon which, on December 3rd are expected
to be at a 27 year high.  Skepticism abounds and most earthquake
scientists say it is impossible to pick the exact day for an
earthquake.  Businesses in the area have capitalized on residents
fears marketing insurance protection and escape packages.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901203-0166"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

At least four moderate earthquakes were recorded on December 3rd, but
none were in the New Madrid area as had been predicted by Iben
Browning.  A spokesman for the US Geological Survey said there is no
way to predict an earthquake precisely, that no two are alike.  On
average, 30 earthquakes are noted by instrumentation each day, but
most are too small to be felt by humans.  Two earthquakes were
recorded in the New Madrid during the fall, a not unusual occurrence.
Some residents of the New Madrid area had taken actions based on the
prediction for December 3rd.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-12341"  
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="F">    

The Tokai coastal of Japan has what may be the world's most dense
array of geophysical instruments.  Data is telemetered to experts in
Tokyo in hopes that they can recognize indications of an imminent
earthquake.  Most world observers have lost hope in predicting
earthquakes and skeptics in Japan believe the Tokai project is money
wasted and misleads the public.  The Tokai section last ruptured in
1854.  If it were to rupture again it could cause a great earthquake
endangering up to ten million people.  The Tokai area is the only one
in Japan that is so instrumented.  The Tokyo-Tokai area is overdue for
a big quake.</SUM>
