<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881126-0007"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Further study of a newly isolated hormone dubbed "amylin", found in
the pancreases of diabetics may lead to new treatments for the most
common form of the disease.  Amylin appears to be responsible for
obesity, reduced insulin secretion, and thei reduced effectiveness of
insulin observed in Type II diabetes.  Complications from blood sugar
levels rising too high include kidney disease, blindness, and
gangrene.  Researchers hope to develop substances that block amylin's
secretion opening the possibility of treatment.  An authority said the
new work is a "very important finding" if amylin truly blocks insulin
and appears abnormal in diabetics.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890314-0237"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes but it is most
prevalent among minorities, especially Native Americans, blacks and
Hispanics.  Hispanics are three times as likely to develop diabetes
than the general population.  More than 150,000 Americans die from
diabetes each year; another 150,000 deaths are diabetes related.  No
one knows what sparks it but researchers believe Hispanics could hold
the key.  The most common form develops mostly in obese adults over 40
who may have a family history of the disease.  Family studies of
diabetic patients are bringing researchers closer to finding the gene
that triggers the disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101289-0194"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Diabetes is a silent killer that afflicts one in eight Latino adults,
a rate higher than that of any ethnic group except American Indians.
Diabetes is a defect in the body's system for using sugar in the
blood.  It results from the body's failure to make insulin.  Latino
diets can be rich in high-calorie fried foods that promote obesity and
increase the chance of getting diabetes, most commonly Type II.  There
is confidence that Latinos will respond to educational efforts on
diabetes.  Examples of how educational programs can work are the
indications that Americans' risk of heart disease is lowering.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890313-0198"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Twelve million Americans have some form of diabetes.  Hispanics are
three times as likely to develop diabetes as the general population.
San Antonio, 50 percent Hispanic in population, is becoming the base
for diabetes studies.  Type II, the most common form, develops mostly
in obese adults over 40 who may also have a family history of the
disease.  Researchers believe that poor Hispanics' diets of cheap
processed food, lack of exercise, and infrequent medical attention
increases their risk of acquiring diabetes.  Researchers are using an
anti-diabetic drug metaforim, used successfully outside the US, which
may have FDA approval soon.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06212161"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Hispanics, whose incidence of diabetes is two to three times as high
as the US population as a whole, can learn how to manage illness at a
free hospital clinic and/or in neighborhood programs in the Morgan
Hill area of San Jose, California.  The clinic will focus on three
ways to manage diabetes: diet, exercise, and medication.  Participants
will learn that traditional dishes can be just as tasty, but
healthier, when made with unsaturated fats and that exercise will
reduce weight, which in turn will lower the risk of contracting
diabetes.  The programs are aimed at people who only speak or prefer
Spanish.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d56"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06136305"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

Health professionals of a Santa Clara Valley Hispanic Education
Program are offering nutrition and exercise classes in an effort to
educate Hispanics on the dangers of diabetes.  Health experts believe
that diet and genetic predisposition may be contributing factors to
the high incidence of diabetes among Hispanics.  Students will be
instructed to prepare traditional Hispanic dishes using
polyunsaturated oil rather than lard and to eat four tortillas
throughout the day rather than at one sitting.  Lessons on the
benefits of good nutrition and exercise to combat diabetes are offered
for the first time and they are geared to Hispanic lifestyle.</SUM>
