<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06165257 WSJ900530-0112 WSJ910822-0021 AP900530-0042 
AP900529-0104 SJMN91-06165057 AP900531-0106 SJMN91-06163120 AP900525-0137
WSJ910614-0120 AP900525-0079 AP900529-0076"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

On 29 May 1990, Russian lawmakers, after three hard-fought ballots,
elected Boris N. Yeltsin as President of the Soviet Union's largest
republic.  It was an important setback for Mikhaili Gorbachev,
President of the USSR and General Secretary of the Soviet Communist
Party.  Gorbachev spoke out against Yeltsin's plan for increased
Russian autonomy saying it would break up the Union.  On 30 May,
Yeltsin, favoring a multi-party system, met with legislators to form a
coalition government for the Russian Republic.  He also called for
autonomy of the Russian as well as the other 14 republics.

On Wednesday, 12 June 1991, Yeltsin won a solid victory in the first
democratic elections for the presidency of the Russian Republic.  It
was a distinct threat to Gorbachev, allowing Yeltsin to claim that he
alone had a democratic mandate to speak for the Russian people.  By
June 14, Yeltsin and Gorbachev put aside strong difference to work on
drafting principles for a new Union Treaty decentralizing much power
to the republicans.

On August 19, hard-liners took power in a coup but protestors and a
determined Russian Parliament led by Yeltsin forced them to
capitulate.  Yeltsin then emerged as the most powerful man in the
nation.  </SUM>
