<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06165257 WSJ900530-0112 WSJ910822-0021 AP900530-0042 AP900529-0104
SJMN91-06165057 AP900531-0106 SJMN91-06163120 AP900525-0137
WSJ910614-0120 AP900525-0079 AP900529-0076"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
  
On 14 May 1990, Russian lawmakers cast ballots in a vote to determine
whether populist Boris N. Yeltsin would become president of the Soviet
Union's largest republic.  He needed the backing from 531 of the 1,059
members of the Russian Congress.  A Yeltsin victory would mean an
important setback for Mikhail Gorbachev, who spoke out against
Yeltsin's plan for increased Russian autonomy, saying that moving
power from central authorities would break up the Union.  Gorbachev
has held the posts of President of the USSR and General Secretary of
the Soviet Communist Party, the two most powerful jobs in the Soviet
Union.

On 29 May, Yeltsin triumphed over opposition from Gorbachev to win the
presidency after three hard-fought ballots, winning four more votes
than needed.  It was a stunning personal defeat for Gorbachev,
challenging his referendum on economic austerity, his policy of
imperial centralism, and the legitimacy of his presidency.  On 20 May,
Yeltsin sat down with legislators to negotiate the make-up of a
coalition government for the Russian Republic.

He favored a multi-part system and called for autonomy for the Russian
as well as the other 14 republics.  On Wednesday, 12 June 1991,
Yeltsin won a solid victory in the first democratic elections for the
presidency of the Russian Republic.  The victory was a distinct threat
to Gorbachev, allowing Yeltsin to claim that he alone had a democratic
mandate to speak for the people of the Soviet Union's largest
republic.  The White House applauded his election and said he would
visit Washington on Thursday, June 20.  By 14 June, Yeltsin and
Gorbachev had put aside strong differences and were working with
leaders of eight of the other 14 republics, drafting fundamental
principles that would underpin a new Union Treaty and Constitution,
decentralizing much political and economic power to the republics.

On Monday, 19 August 1991, hard-liners took power in a coup in Moscow.
In a dramatic climax, they were forced to capitulate by protesters and
a determined Russian Parliament led by the President of Russia, Boris
Yeltsin.  He seemed to tower over the hard-liners during the standoff
and emerged easily as the most powerful man in the nation.  Mikhail
Gorbachev returned to Moscow on 21 August from the Crimea, where he
was under house arrest during the coup.  His future role in bringing
about stability was uncertain given public opinion that it was
Gorbachev who created possibilities for the coup.  </SUM>
