<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900525-0079"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
  
The candidate backed by Mikhail Gorbachev for President of the Russian
Republic, Russian Aleksandr Vlasov, withdrew from the race today,
strengthening the campaign of Boris Yeltsin, the populist who has
repeatedly clashed with Gorbachev.  Two other men remained in the race
but the contest appeared to be between Yeltsin and Vlasov.  Earlier,
Yeltsin delivered a speech pledging to defend the republic from
meddling by the national Soviet government but refrained from clashing
with Gorbachev.  Gorbachev holds the posts of President of the USSR
and General Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party, the two most
powerful jobs in the Soviet Union.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900525-0137"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
   
Russian lawmakers cast ballots Friday night in a vote to determine
whether populist Boris N. Yeltsin would become President of the Soviet
Union's largest republic.  He needs backing from 531 of the 1,059
members of the Russian Congress.  A Yeltsin victory would mean an
important setback for Gorbachev who spoke out against Yeltsin's plan
for increased Russian autonomy.

Yeltsin has made a remarkable political comeback from disgrace two
years ago when he was ousted from his post as Moscow Party Chief.
Ostracized by the Kremlin elite, including Gorbachev, he has continued
to publicly criticize Gorbachev for his "halfway reforms."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900529-0076"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 

Radical reformer Boris N. Yeltsin triumphed over opposition from
Mikail Gorbachev to win the presidency of the largest Soviet republic
today.  After three hard-fought ballots in the 1,060-member Russian
Congress of People's Deputies, Yeltsin won 535, four more than the
majority he needed.  Gorbachev faces a formidable challenge from
Yeltsin, although a spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry said the
election could strengthen Gorbachev's campaign for economic reforms.
Gorbachev actively opposed Yeltsin, telling the Russian Congress last
week that the platform of moving political and economic power from
central to local authorities would lead to "a breakup of the union."
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900529-0104"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Populist reformer Boris Yeltsin won the presidency of the largest
Soviet republic Tuesday, overcoming opposition by Mikhail Gorbachev
and declaring the start of "Russia's social, economic, and spiritual
rebirth."  Lawmakers said they believed Yeltsin gained the last few
votes he needed by offering to form a coalition government with the
Communist Party bloc and other groups.  Yeltsin said he believed he
gained several voters because of a last-minute push by Gorbachev to
block his election.  Gorbachev reportedly urged delegates at a meeting
Monday night not to vote for Yeltsin.  Yeltsin won 535 votes, four
more than the majority needed.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900530-0042"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Boris Yeltsin, the newly elected president of the Russian republic,
sat down with 130 legislators today to negotiate the makeup of a
coalition government for the largest Soviet republic.  Legislators
said that he opened the meeting in a businesslike fashion and set only
one limit, asking that one of his deputies be a woman.
Representatives of each political faction and each ethnic region in
the Russian Federation were present.  Yeltsin asked for two to three
nominations for each ministerial post in the Russian government.  He
said the candidates would be presented to the full Russian Congress
for confirmation starting Thursday.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900530-0112"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

The election of Boris Yeltsin as president of the Russian republic is
a stunning personal defeat for Mikhail Gorbachev.  Yeltsin is certain
to strike a triple blow against Gorbachev's political line by (1)
challenging the Soviet government's referendum on economic austerity;
(2) opposing the policy of imperial centralism; and (3) challenging
the legitimacy of Gorbachev's presidency, perhaps to the point of
forcing a new Union- wide election.

On the political front, Yeltsin will favor a multi-party system and
oppose Lenin's principle of "democratic centralism."  He favors
dismantling the Communist Party, as well as "depoliticization" of the
Army, the Interior Ministry, and the KGB.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900531-0106"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Boris Yeltsin, the new president of the Russian Federation and a
leading critic of Mikhail Gorbachev, said Thursday he will try to make
peace in his personal feud with the Soviet president.  Wednesday,
Yeltsin called for achieving Russian "sovereignty" within 100 days,
meaning with this term not independence but autonomy in most internal
decisions.  Yeltsin also urged the Kremlin to allow the other 14
republics the same autonomy, making the country a federation of states
that could overrule the central government on most matters.  Yeltsin
was accused by a Russian Congress deputy of overstepping his authority
with some of his statements.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06163120"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Russians vote Wednesday in the first democratic elections for the
presidency of the Russian Republic and the mayors of various cities.
On Monday, some 30,000 people marched in support for the front runner
for president, Boris Yeltsin.  The campaign has turned dirty with
newspaper allegations that Yeltsin is emotionally unstable.  Yeltsin's
aides have charged that Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev personally
ordered a KBG smear.  This indicates that rapprochement between
Yeltsin and Gorbachev is only skin deep and also indicates growing
desperation by Soviet leaders.  Failure to win an absolute majority
will force a runoff with Yeltsin's main opponent, former Soviet Prime
Minister Nikolaj Ryzhkov.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06165057"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Boris Yeltsin, the radical populist who campaigned for transformation
of the Soviet economy on the principles of free enterprise, may have
won a solid victory Wednesday as the first elected president of
Russia.  He appeared certain of the absolute majority of more than 50
percent needed on the first ballot, avoiding a runoff.  A Yeltsin
victory would represent a distinct threat to Gorbachev, who never
faced a popular election.  Yeltsin could claim that he alone has a
democratic mandate to speak for the people of the Soviet Union's
largest republic.  Preliminary reports from widely diverse
constituencies indicate an impressive victory.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06165257"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Boris Yeltsin was elected president of the Russian republic by winning
up to 57 percent of the vote.  The victory was certain to accelerate
reforms across the Soviet Union and it cleared the way for him to
travel to Washington next week, at the invitation of Congress, in a
demonstration of independence from Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev.
The White House applauded his election as a "good sign" for democracy
and said he would visit here next Thursday.  However, democracy is
still in its infancy in Russia.  Election officials say they are
laboriously counting paper ballots cast at each of 98,000 polling
stations.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910614-0120"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

Boris Yeltsin won a comfortable victory in the Russian Republic's
first presidential election.  The vote underscored strong public
desire for change and the dwindling influence of the Soviet Communist
establishment.  The US administration has avoided doing anything to
add to Mr. Yeltsin's stature as a rival to Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev.  It now appears that a new working relationship between
Yeltsin and Gorbachev has changed the situation.  Putting aside strong
differences, they are working on transforming the Soviet Union at a
more rapid pace; namely, a new federal structure decentralizing much
political and economic power to the nation's 15 republics.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910822-0021"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">

In a dramatic climax to the coup of Monday, August 19, in Moscow, the
hard-liners who took power were forced to capitulate yesterday by
protesters and a determined Russian Parliament led by Boris Yeltsin,
the president of Russia.  He seemed to tower over the hard-liners
during the standoff and now emerges easily as the most powerful man in
the nation.

Mikhail Gorbachev returned to Moscow last night from the Crimea where
he was under house arrest during the coup.  His future role in
bringing about stability is uncertain given public opinion that
Gorbachev himself created the possibilities for the coup.  </SUM>
