<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="LA112389-0104 LA111989-0125 LA113089-0118 LA121590-0056
LA053089-0081 SJMN91-06340029 LA041290-0125 WSJ911213-0029
WSJ900420-0022 LA092290-0175"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 
  
Charles Keating, owner of Lincoln Savings and Loan of Phoenix and
chairman of American Continental Corporation of Irvine, California,
loved the world of high finance and power brokering.  His greed,
however, took him down a path of dishonesty, deceit and deviousness
that compromised himself, his family and associates.  He ended his
career in prison.

In his youth, Keating was a collegiate gold medal winner in the Pan
American Games, and later, a Navy fighter pilot in World War II.  He
launched his business career as a lawyer in Cincinnati.  He was
aggressive, impatient, a risk taker and a stubborn competitor.  Later
in his career, the adjectives "dishonest" and "deceptive" would be
added.

Some of his peers looked upon him as a "con man" who relied on
deception and political influence to build his financial and business
empire.  Others looked upon him as a dominant personality who believed
himself to be above the law.  He became a high roller in the world of
acquisitions, money- shifting to give the appearance of honesty, and
illegal pay-offs to politicians to buy influence.  He used the latter
to protect his empire.

Keating was not shy about expecting paid-off politicians to assist him
in his legal difficulties.  Neither was he reticent about involving
members of his family in his illegal activities.

Although describing himself as a conservative Republican, Keating's
contributions belie his political beliefs.  Records show that he made
contributions to federal or state politicians who he felt could help
him in his legal difficulties, regardless of their political beliefs
or affiliations.

Keating, his family and friends loved the good life.  To support their
high spending habits, they siphoned-off funds from Lincoln Savings and
Loan for their personal use, even at a time when one of Keating's
companies was filing for bankruptcy protection.

Much of Charles Keating's world was false and deceptive.  In the end,
he was unable to come to terms with the fact that he drove many people
into financial ruin, many of them elderly retirees on a fixed income.
He protested his innocence at this trial and claimed that federal
regulators drove him out of business.

In a final note of greed and dishonesty, Keating and officials of his
savings and loan company offered to provide loan and credit files and
other documents to FDIC regulators in exchange for paintings which
hung on the walls of the savings and loan building.  </SUM>
