<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA111989-0125"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
  
Charles Keating, of Lincoln Savings and Loan notoriety, was a
collegiate gold medal swimmer and a Navy fighter pilot during World
War II.

After the war, Keating began his career in Cincinnati, Ohio as a
lawyer.  During his early career, others sized him up as aggressive,
impatient, a risk taker and a stubborn competitor. All of these
characteristics were to mark his later career and prominence in the
U. S. savings and loan scandel beginning in 1985.

None of these early characteristics ascribed to Keating included the
words "dishonest" and "deceptive" and these were to mark his later
career as well.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA113089-0118"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">  
  
"California" Savings and Loan Commissioner William J. Crawford called
Charles Keating a "con man" who relied on lies and bought political
influence.  He used both to deceive and intimidate state
regulators. The U.S. took over his scandel-plagued Lincoln Savings and
Loan of Irvine, California in April.

Associates who knew Keating say that he was a dominant personality who
believed that he was above the law.

Keating certainly was aware of his own misdeeds in the high roller
world of acquisitions, money shifting and illegal pay-offs to
politicians. He used the latter and a staff of lawyers to protect his
financial empire.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA053089-0081"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Charles Keating is not shy. When queried if his financial support of
politicians is intended to influence them in favor of his cause,
replied: "I want to say in the most forceful way I can, I certainly
hope so."

Neither is Keating shy about involving family members, friends and
associates in campaign contributions to federal and state politicians.

Never before, say regulators, had a single savings and loan operator
had enough political pull to get five U. S. senators working on his
behalf.

There is yet another side to Keating. In 1957, he was a congressional
lobbyist in the war against pornography.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA112389-0104"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

During 1985-86, Charles Keating, his family and associates contributed
$350,000 to state politics. The contributions went to both Republican
and Democratic campaign funds.

Although a staunch conservative Republican, Keating's contributions
belie his political beliefs. Records show that his contributions, as
well as those of his family, friends and associates, were directed at
candidates and officials of state and federal offices who he later
called upon for assistance in his legal difficulties with state and
federal savings and loan regulators.

Neither was Keating hesitant in involving members of his family in his
illegal schemes. These included his son and three sons-in-law.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA121590-0056"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Charles Keating was a shrewd observer of people, especially people who
could help him in building and protecting his financial
empire. Keating's political beliefs were not a consideration when
seeking political influence.

This became evident during the course of Keating's battles against
officials who were attempting to put restrictions on the savings and
loan industry.

On one occasion, Keating used the influence he had as a heavy
contributor to arrange a meeting with five senators, four of whom were
Democrats and one a Republican. Keating, a conservative Republican,
had little in common with the four Democrats in the group.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911213-0029"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Charles Keating was indicted on fraud and racketeering charges
following the failure of his savings and loan company. The failure was
the result of systematic looting by Keating, family members and
associates.

Keating et al. apparently loved the good life. To support their high
spending habits, they siphoned-off $975,000 from the savings and loan
for their personal use at the same time as another one of Keating's
companies was preparing for bankruptcy protection.

Nor did they express concern about the manner in which they obtained
funds to support this lifestyle. Many of the investors were retirees
on fixed incomes.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA041290-0125"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Charles Keating probably had strong feelings of being a victim of
persecution when federal authorities seized his troubled Lincoln
Savings and Loan. His anger may have also surfaced when the same
regulators justified the seizure by lowering the total value of the
company's assets to a figure of one- half of its liabilities. The
federal charge estimated the thrift's assets were worth only 2-2.5
billion dollars and that the discrepancy in funds could cost taxpayers
two billion dollars.

Keating also made charges of federal mismanagement of his seized
savings and loan during a hearing in which he is attempting to recover
his company.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092290-0175"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">
 
Charles Keating, the Phoenix businessman and savings and loan owner,
may have finally come to a measure of reality. His legal battles
against creditors, regulators and prosecutors looked like a lost
cause. For this reason, he may have considered that flight was the
only means of escape.

Perhaps the presiding judge at Keating's hearing also came to this
realization when he refused to reduce a five million dollar bail for
Keating.  The latter was indicted on 42 counts of state securities
fraud.

The judge, in making his ruling, said that Keating, "has significant
reasons not to stay around."  </SUM>
   
<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06340029"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Much of Charles Keating's world was false and deceptive. The former
president of Lincoln Savings and Loan and chairman of American
Continental Corporation was unable to come to terms with the fact that
he drove many people to financial ruin.

After the verdict of guilty was read at his trial, he protested his
innocense and claimed that federal prosecutors drove him out of
business.

Keating's actions appear to be those of a man without a
conscience. His victims included many elderly investors who lost their
savings in the purchase of junk bonds. He described them as "insured
certificates of deposit."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900420-0022"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

There was a final note of greed and dishonesty displayed by Charles
Keating and his associates a short time after federal regulators
seized the Lincoln Savings and Loan about a year ago.

One veteran regulator described the seizure of the company as the most
bizarre and chaotic situation he had ever encountered. Loan and credit
files, said the regulator, were missing. FDIC personnel managed to
retrieve the files when the savings and loan managers offered the
files in exchange for the art in the company's offices. Keating later
denied that there was any such bartering.  </SUM>
