<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900418-0193"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

According to a recent Gallup poll, 70% of the members of the House of
Representatives oppose limiting the number of congressional terms,
while almost two- thirds of the public support the idea.  Franking
privileges and campaign finance laws make defeating an incumbent very
difficult, with 96% of incumbents re-elected over the past three
elections.  Also, one in four incumbents this year will have no major
party opposition.  This trend is spreading to the Senate.  Since
presidents are limited to two terms, political power has shifted to
the legislature.  Congressional careerism has become the norm, and
some want a constitutional amendment to limit terms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911106-0109"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

While some Democrats claim term limits are a "right-wing" crusade,
this author (John Fund) believes support from the liberal and
Democratic sphere is increasing.  Polls show Americans back term
limits by 75% to 21% nationwide.  One reason is that term limits would
open up politics to people--minorities and women--now excluded from
office.  Some past Democratic leaders were cited as supporting the
idea, but the party "apparatchiks" remain against it.  Some
journalists favor term limits voicing a need for new blood and the end
of professional politicians.  Fund does not believe enacting term
limits will be easy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911031-0012"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

William Mellor discusses the constitutionality of term limits.  While
laws baring first-time candidates from running have been invalidated,
state laws limiting tenure of congressional officeholders have not
been tested.  Florida will provide an opinion later in the month.
California's limit on state terms has been upheld.  Term limits do not
restrict the right to vote for a candidate because of his ideology and
candidates may be elected to a different office or re-elected to the
same office after a waiting period.  Term limits also do not violate
the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.  The U.S. Supreme
Court has long held that the states have the power to regulate
elections.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920103-0037"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

In response to a "free market" stand against government imposition of
term limits, this author (Edward Crane) claims two reasons for term
limits that economists should appreciate.  One, the less time a
politician is in Washington the less his common sense will be
corrupted by the "cult to ruling."  Two, few individuals who want to
spend the rest of their life in Washington will be elected.  Crane
feels Congress needs experience in living in the "real world," but
productive citizens do not want to commit 10 to 15 years to politics.
Six-year limits on House service could be viewed as only a leave of
absence from real careers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092790-0010"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Nelson Polsby does not believe term limits will give their proponents
what they want.  Term limitation will not decrease the influence of
interest groups and their money because new candidates need even more
money to get recognition.  Inexperienced legislators must learn their
job from the legislative staff, bureaucrats and lobbyists, thus
shifting the power from the elected officials.  We should vote poor
performers out.  Terms limits would only throw the good out with the
bad.  He also fears the main supporters of term limits are those who
are assuming non-incumbents are easier to beat or buy.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA101090-0017"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Ross Baker equates term limits to burning down the house to get rid of
the rats.  He believe the recurring temptation to legislate vengeance
on adversaries will backfire.  Oklahoma has limited state lawmakers to
12 years' service.  This will create more amateurs who will be
controlled by governors and bureaucrats and more vulnerable to
corruption.  Additionally, office holders will not have a stake in
their job and will be more concerned with their next job.  Lobbyists
and legislative staffs will be celebrating the guaranteed influx of
inexperienced office holders.  Baker considers term limits illogical
and wrong, and an insult to the voters.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910718-0143"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

T.K. Wetherel does not believe that the Federalists Alexander Hamilton
and James Madison supported term limits.  Limits were included in the
failed Articles of Confederation and rejected by the Constitutional
Convention and the First Congress.  Hamilton reasoned term limitations
on the presidency would diminish the inducements to good behavior.
Madison wrote that members of Congress in long-standing could become
masters of the public business.  Not the Federalists, but the
out-of-power opposition wanted limits.  With term limits, key
legislation, such as the 1850 Compromise and civil- rights bills, may
not have been enacted and Medicare and Social Security may not have
been protected.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911030-0008"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Albert Hunt reports that pollsters have found the public losing
confidence in the electoral system and the Congress.  People want more
representation and this is the impetus behind the momentum for
limiting terms of lawmakers.  Hunt believes these limits would result
in more power going to the unelected staff and lobbyists.  Voters
should never be prevented from electing who they think is best.  Other
solutions might be eliminating some of Congress' perquisites and a
fundamental overhaul of the committee system.  Legislators now are put
on a committee and stay there, becoming stale and locked into outdated
approaches.  The length of committee assignments should be
limited.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911224-0085"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Robert Barro discusses his surprise that some free market advocates,
with their faith in the self-interested consumer, support term limits.
The free marketers claim incumbent politicians have an unfair
advantage, 95% of the incumbents were re-elected, and a citizen
Congress would result in better government.  Barro believes decreasing
the excessive incentive of maintaining a legislator's seniority status
may be a better solution.  Legislative branch term limits are an
attempt to shift power back to the executive branch, now subjected to
limits.  Barro believes ending executive limits would be a better
solution, especially since there is no evidence that they improved
governing.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d54"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102190-0045"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Californians were asked what would state government be like by 1996 if
two propositions to limit terms of statewide officeholders and state
legislators, on California's November ballot, are passed.  Individuals
felt there would be all new faces and the people would have more
control, politics would not be a profession, expertise would come from
the citizenry, and candidates would be more dependent on the party for
financing and less dependent of the special interests.  On the other
side, individuals felt it would be clear that amateurs can't handle
the complex job, everyone is a lame duck from the beginning,
minorities would lose, and power would go to the executive branch and
bureaucrats.</SUM>
