<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880617-0024"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The Reagan administration has moved to deal with the worsening drought
by appointing an interagency group and authorizing farmers in dry
counties to harvest hay on Conservation Reserve Program land.
Thirteen states are now involved.  A White House spokesman said the
drought would drive up food prices, but not have overall implications
for the economy.  There was speculation that the export enhancement
program would be curbed and embargos placed on soybean exports.
Bankers are concerned about payments on farm loans and fewer loan
applications.  Farm equipment makers fear sales will drop, while
realtors fear an end to the land boom.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880630-0295"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

The Agriculture Department reports that it has been on top of the
drought since March 1, when a drought task force was established.  A
"USDA Backgrounder" was released listing actions.  The only two which
involved money were an extra $50 million to buy beef for feeding
programs and allowing Mexico to buy $40 million worth of meat.
Actions have included allowing use for grazing and hay cutting of
acreage in conservation programs, Congressional briefings, interagency
meetings, news conferences, daily weather updates, a toll-free hotline
on federal services available, and crop surveys.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880714-0142"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Little relief is predicted for areas plagued by the drought, which is
moving eastward.  Now 29% of the nation is undergoing severe or
extreme drought conditions, accompanied by above normal temperatures
in much of the nation.  The drought involves the northern Great
Plains, Rocky Mountains, the Great Lakes region, and the Ohio and
Tennessee valleys, and may extend into the Mid-Atlantic states.
Nationally the drought is about equal to the one in 1911 and somewhat
less severe than those in 1956 or several years in the 1930's.
However, large areas of the Midwest have had the driest April-June
since 1895.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880811-0299"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

President Reagan has signed a $3.9 billion drought relief bill on
Thursday.  The annual Agriculture Department survey released hours
later predicted total crop production will be 88% of the 1977 average,
with grain production 31% smaller than the 1987 harvest.  Corn, the
largest and most important American crop, will decline 34% from last
year.  The soybean harvest is expected to be down 23%, with all wheat
production dropping 13%.  The department had already predicted that
food prices would increase about 4% and believes this drought will add
about 1 to 2% more.  Food stockpiles, however, remain high and 50
million farm acres are being kept out of production.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891210-0079"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Associated Press has tracked the 1988 $3.9 billion drought relief
package intended to save Midwestern grain growers from bankruptcy.
While the program did assist farmers in the upper Great Plains who
needed it, AP found that the election year payments went far beyond.
Congress added hail and flood damage to the package, and loose
regulations and lax enforcement further spread the money.  By
November, one- quarter of all American farmers, some of whom enjoyed
good crops at higher prices, had collected damage money.  AP found
some growers got drought aid and crop insurance payments, and then
replanted for a successful harvest.  Some payments went to banks,
corporations, churches and even local governments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891213-0004"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

Associated Press' tracking of the 1988 drought relief package shows it
did help those most in need.  In North Dakota, the nation's most
agriculturally dependent state, more that 49,000 producers shared
$410.2 million.  The state lost two-thirds of its 1988 spring wheat.
The disaster payments reduced statewide losses by $1.2 billion.  Other
drought-ravaged states were Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota and Wisconsin.
Disaster aid and crop insurance put $500 million into Iowa's economy,
staving off bankruptcies and other financial problems.  A university
survey reported drought aid added $15,000 to the average farmer's net
cash income of $6,300.  These states still need a good year to get
back on their feet, and it was not 1989.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0119"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

A computer study suggests the 1988 drought in the Midwest may have
been caused by bands of ocean abnormal temperature near the equator in
the Pacific Ocean.  While meteorologists often blame such droughts on
the jet stream being north of its usual position, this is not the
cause.  In April-June 1988, there were alternating high and low
pressure centers across the northern Western Hemisphere preventing the
normal flow of weather systems.  Computer modeling suggests that these
centers were related to unusual ocean temperature variations observed
in the Pacific.  If valid, monitoring ocean temperature may provide
forewarning of droughts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900910-0020"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

The latest postmortem of the 1988 drought in nine Midwestern states,
reveals it was not as bad as it might have been.  Net farm income
decreased in drought areas by almost $10,000.  Farms in all areas
continued to improve their solvency position, and the number of
financially vulnerable farms continues to decrease.  Farms survived by
selling- off inventories, taking advantage of higher market prices,
and receiving the disaster relief money.  The report noted higher
prices helped reduce the direct payments to farmers under USDA's
commodity programs.</SUM>
