<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6455"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Hurricane Andrew moved toward the Alabama-Louisiana-Texas coast
leaving at least eight dead and severe damage in southern Florida. A
million people were ordered out of their homes in Florida and many are
without power.  British insurance adjusters gave an early estimate
that total losses could exceed $15 Billion, claims for which would
mostly fall on US insurers with only light impact on UK companies.
Andrew gathered strength as it moved across the Gulf and there was
concern that it might hit low-lying New Orleans.  Also threatened are
the many oil refining facilities and offshore platforms.  Shell Oil
was evacuating most of the workers from its platforms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6110"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

The death count from Hurricane Andrew stands at three in the Bahamas
and at least twelve in Florida where Dade County took the brunt of the
storm.  Damage estimates, while preliminary, are up to $20 billion
with Andrew still to strike somewhere along the
Mississippi-Louisiana-Texas coast.  More than two million people have
been advised or ordered to leave coastal areas.  New Orleans is
particularly vulnerable because it lies below sea level but Andrew's
most likely landfall will be west of there.  Insurance claims from
Florida will hit mostly US companies, especially State Farm, Allstate,
and American International.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-6038"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Hurricane Andrew narrowly missed New Orleans when it made landfall in
Louisiana, 60 miles to the west.  Andrew, claimed to be the costliest
natural disaster in US history nevertheless impacted insurers losses
much less than expected, perhaps less than $1B.  At least one person
died and 75 were injured along the Louisiana coast.  Fourteen died
earlier in Florida and three in the Bahamas.  The oil refining
industry in Louisiana sustained only little damage but lost production
when power was cut.  In Florida, damage was mostly to uninsured
property, but two million people remained without power.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5835"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

General Accident, the leading British insurer, estimates that its
claims resulting from Hurricane Andrew could be as much as $40M.  It
could reach a level at which external catastrophe reinsurance covers
would become exposed, meaning that GA could pass on its losses to
external reinsurers.  Losses to all insurers could total more than
$8B.  Not all property damaged in the path of Andrew is insured and
estimates for total damage could go to $20B, but some estimates peg
the insurers losses as low as $1B.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5797"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Rebuilding began in Louisiana to repair the devastation of Hurricane
Andrew which killed two people and injured dozens.  Local officials in
Florida, also hit by Andrew were critical by the delay in supplying
food, drinking water, and other supplies.  Federal officials
acknowledged problems but promised "dramatic improvements".  President
Bush ordered troops to Florida but specified no number.  One of every
eight Dade County homes was wiped out. The alligator industry and
cotton and sugar cane crops there are threatened. Louisiana oil
refineries were barely affected and crude oil deliveries were expected
to resume.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5267"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Florida's losses from Hurricane Andrew for which US insurers expect to
pay $7.3B make it the most costly insured catastrophe in the US, even
before the Andrew claims from Louisiana are tallied.  In southern
Florida at least 150,000 residents are homeless or living amid ruins,
and nearly twice that number still have no electricity.  President
Bush made his second trip to the devastated area and pledged the
government would stay with the clean-up until completed.  Andrew has
exceeded the insurance costs of Hurricane Hugo, the Oakland fire and
tornado and hail damages.  The insurance industry should have adequate
reserves to cover the losses.  Wall Street has remained calm.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d04"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT923-5089"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Despite an initial faltering and inadequate response to the Hurricane
Andrew devastation, the Administration now appears to have its act
together and President Bush's re-election campaign may, in the end,
not be harmed.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency, saddled with
political appointees was totally unprepared for the disaster, but is
now being "shaped-up".  The Administration is also improving its
standing through the dispensing of largess, such as a promise to
rebuild Homestead Air Base, an important job source for Floridians.
US insurers expect to pay around $500M in claims for Andrew's damage
in Louisiana, taking the total insurance bill to $8B.</SUM>
