<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870501-0141"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">

The Shining Path is now gaining support among farmers in the jungles
of the Upper Huallaga Valley.  From July 1984 to December 1985 this
area was under a state of emergency and controlled by the army, which
reportedly collected hundreds of thousands of dollars from drug lords.
When President Garcia lifted the state of emergency, the army lost
control and the Shining Path moved in.  Reportedly, the guerrillas are
demanding one-fifth of the farmer's coca crop in return for
protection.  The Shining Path is organizing self-defense groups to
oppose the anti-drug police and coca-eradication personnel.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880613-0161"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

On Sunday, the Peruvian Police captured Osman Morote, the top military
leader of the Shining Path, a Maoist rebel group.  Morote had arrived
in Lima a week ago to coordinate terrorist attacks in Lima.  The
Shining Path was founded by Abimael Guzman.  It is a splinter of the
Peruvian Communist Party and is seeking to overthrow Peru's elected
government and install a peasant and worker state.  Eight years ago
the group took up arms after conducting semi-clandestine political
work with peasants in the Andean highlands for 10 years.  Guzman, not
seen for years, still is recognized at the group's leader.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880816-0234"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

An army death squad, the Rodrigo Franco Command, has vowed to kill a
Shining Path member or sympathizer for every person slain by the
guerrillas, according to the District Attorney of Ayachucho, Peru.  He
is investigating charges that the Command killed dozens of peasants in
May and was threatened by the Command if he continued the
investigation.  The Shining Path was accused of killing two policemen
and wounding three on Sunday near Pucallpa.  The Peruvian government
claims the Shining Path has killed more than 15,000 people and caused
$10 million in property damage since fighting began 8 years ago.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881227-0185"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The Shining Path guerrillas are attempting to move into the
shantytowns surrounding Lima, especially Huaycan, which lies along
near the Central Highway, a strategic route through the main
industrial zone.  For the last 18 months, the Shining Path has been
taking a more public role in the slums, labor unions, and student
groups, and with its newspaper "El Diario".  Believed to have only
about 5,000 armed combatants, the group has struck in the mountains,
worked with drug traffickers in the jungle, and bought weapons with
profits.  Founded by Guzman, a Marxist philosophy professor, the group
grew in the Indian community, long persecuted by the ruling
elite.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890907-0221"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The Maoist Shining Path guerrillas have brought their own brand of law
and order to the Upper Huallaga River Valley.  The group has the
reputation of almost puritanical honesty and has gained the support of
tens of thousands of farmers.  They always pay for food and supplies
and have banned drug abuse, prostitution, homosexuality and thievery,
killing those who disobey.  Peruvian officials call the insurgents
lunatic killers, but residents feel protected from the violence,
abuses and corruption brought by the police.  Residents say the
Shining Path is quick to kill local officials they deem to be
corrupt.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900607-0039"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

According to Peru's President Garcia, Shining Path rebels have formed
the People's Defense Revolutionary Movement to carry their operations
into Lima and other coastal urban areas.  The Shining Path currently
operates in at least half of Peru, especially in the mountains and
jungle, drawing support from indigenous peoples who resent historic
domination by ethnic Europeans.  The presidential run-off election
between Mario Vargas Llosa and Alberto Fujimori is later this week.
Recent violence includes two car bombings near the Government Palace,
a rebel takeover of a electoral office, destruction of high-tension
power pylons, and attacks on a city bus and a stove factory.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900720-0113"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The strength and success of the Shining Path guerrillas remain a
question as Alberto Fujimori prepares to take over as Peru's president
on July 28.  The guerrillas began fighting cautiously in 1980, but
became lethal quickly.  The governments claims 20,000 have died and
damages of $16 billion.  Now 50% of the Peruvians live under emergency
law.  President Belaunde ignored the guerrillas, while President
Garcia, after first trying a liberal approach, became tough, then
eventually tried simply to coexist.  While Fujimori's campaign pitch
advocated economic-development initiatives, his actual policies may be
quite different.  The government claims to have captured a "safe
house" in Lima on June 4.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-51875"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

Carlos Tapia, a Peruvian subversion specialist, claims the Shining
Path, although defeated, does not intend to seek reconciliation.  He
believes the government is seeking to strengthen the leadership of
imprisoned Abimael Guzman to counter the faction of free terrorists
headed by Alberto Ramirez Durand, aka "Feliciano."  Guzman is
organizing a second party congress to recommend the end of violence
and disarmament.  Tapia believes this is an attempt to gain freedom
for the leaders and achieve a semi-legal status for the organization,
which will eventually regroup and pursue original ideological
goals.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-22942"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

A Sunday television program stated that according to a "very reliable
source," talks are being held between Shining Path leader Abimael
Guzman and government representatives to negotiate an agreement.  The
10-point agreement reportedly is aimed to stop the popular war
characterized by terrorism, murders, sabotage and armed agitation and
propaganda.  The agreement would also dismantle the People's Guerrilla
Army, allow a gradual general amnesty, allow exiled members to return
to Peru, and restore movement archives seized earlier. The agreement
also reportedly mentions the need for economic support in the war torn
areas.  Government officials have not commented.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

On 25 January, La Republica, a prominent anti-Fujimori daily,
published a tract purported to be a genuine Shining Path statement
approved by imprisoned Shining Path leader Abimael Guzman.  The paper
contended that it wanted to provide Peruvians with peace proposal
information, not released by the government.  The government had
released letters from Guzman calling for peace talks in October 1993,
claiming they represented an admission of political defeat and the
government now had the initiative in confronting the guerrillas.
Media in Lima doubt these conclusions, claiming Guzman is no longer in
control and is being used by Fujimori.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-56863"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   

The Shining Path Central Committee, comprised of leaders who have not
been arrested, held a meeting in February presided over by
"Feliciano."  Reportedly they decided to continue the "people's war"
and reject members advocating the peace accord.  A five-point document
reasserted the violence rising from a 1992 agreement, emphasized a
1993 position supporting political and military continuation of the
people's war including in cities, and condemned members seeking peace
as "the Black Group."  The leaders claim a man in prison (Guzman)
cannot lead a communist organization, but hope to retain Guzman's
ideological principles and popular support to resume fighting.</SUM>
