<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881017-0235"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">        

The idea of a tunnel between France and England has been alive since
Napoleon proposed it in 1802. He was warned off, but since then there
have been abortive starts on digging a tunnel. Free trade is scheduled
to start in 1992, and that prospect has given new impetus to the
project. Construction of a service tunnel has begun and has reached
out two miles from England and one-quarter mile from the geologically
more complex side. Construction of two one-way train tunnels will
start in December with completion scheduled five years from now.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900615-0131"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

Prospects for the on-time completion of the "chunnel" have brightened,
but Britain will not build a high-speed rail link from London to
Folkestone. The government's announcement yesterday intensified an
18-month old squabble. Opposition leaders have contended that without
a high-speed link Britain will not realize the full benefits of the
tunnel. Thatcher claims two billion pounds have already been earmarked
for infrastructure. Without the high-speed link passengers will speed
from Paris to Calais at 180 miles an hour, slow to 100 in the tunnel,
and crawl from Folkestone to London at 60 miles per hour.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900629-0260"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

It now looks as if the three-tunnel thoroughfare under the English
Channel will meet its June 1993 completion date, but it is 60 percent
over budget and embroiled in a contractor dispute. The funding
problems are not the only reasons that it is unpopular in England.
The entire project rankles many. It challenges England's insular
identity, and many consider it only as a conduit that will give easy
access to all kinds of continental problems, from terrorists to
rabies. Residents in rural and prosperous Kent, where the tunnel will
surface, are particularly vocal in their displeasure.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900705-0145"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

When Margaret Thatcher and Francois Mitterrand signed the tunnel
treaty in February 1986, eggs were thrown Mitterrand's
automobile. This was a harbinger of the disgust that would be
expressed later by many English when asked about the "chunnel". It may
be Europe's biggest civil-engineering project of the century, as it is
so advertised, but now, four years after it was authorized, public
opinion polls show that the English people don't want a fixed link to
the continent. They are especially critical of the French. Despite the
opposition, transport analysts say the tunnel will be a boon to
British industry.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901030-0216"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

After drilling and digging since 1987 from their respective ends of
the "chunnel", the British and French were able to talk directly
through a small hole created when British workers sent a probe through
the barrier separating them from their French counterparts It was a
tiny hole, but it marked the end of Britain's island status. The
breakthrough came in the service tunnel. That tunnel should be
finished in January. The first coupling of the two rail tunnels is
expected in mid-1991. The rails will then be laid and all work should
be completed in June 1993.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901031-0024"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

TransManche Link, the construction consortium that is building the
"chunnel", said a historic linkup occurred Tuesday 13 miles southeast
of Folkestone and 10 miles northwest of Sangatte. Each of the three
tunnels starts a few miles inland and is 31 miles long. The drilling,
done by gargantuan machines, is now about 80 percent complete. It has
been a very costly venture. Seven workers on the British side, and two
on the French side have been killed in construction accidents. The
initial estimated cost of 9.4 billion dollars has risen to 16.7
billion dollars.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA120290-0163"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The British and French tunnelers had made contact on October 29 when a
two-inch hole had been driven through the chalk barrier separating
them, but it was last Saturday before the passage was big enough to
allow them to walk through and shake hands. The handshakes came
exactly three years after drilling began. June 1993 is the projected
opening date for the "chunnel", and train travel time between London
and Paris should be three and one-half hours. The "chunnel" is viewed
positively in France, but the English worry about the loss of their
protective moat.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-4219"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

On May 6 the Queen and President Mitterrand will declare the Channel
Tunnel open.  That is expected to boost property values in
southwestern England and northeastern France. The real estate market
is now relatively quiet, but the far-sighted are buying.  There are
great values in France, and those on the English side aren't
bad. Experts in France hope the tunnel, new roadways and new railways
will give the area new life.  British freight companies are preparing
to set up bases on the continent. Asian entrepreneurs see an advantage
in being close to Belgium.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d39"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT942-11114"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="C">     

The official opening of the Channel Tunnel should help the economy of
the northwestern regions of Belgium, even though the country's biggest
ports will suffer a loss of traffic.  The Flanders region stands to
realize the biggest boost from the "chunnel". The West Flanders
Regional Development Authority is preparing to become a part of what
is being called the "New European Metropolitan Area". That will take
in the Nord-Pas des Calais in France, Western Flanders and Hainaut in
Belgium, and Kent in England. The biggest advantage for Belgium will
come from close cooperation between national authorities and their
British and French counterparts.</SUM>
