<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41 FBIS4-56863 FBIS3-51875 WSJ900720-0113 AP880816-0234
AP900607-0039 FBIS3-22942 AP881227-0185 AP890907-0221 AP880613-0161
WSJ870501-0141"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

Shining Path ("Sendero Luminoso"), a Maoist guerrilla organization
founded by Abimael Guzman had its initial support from coffee and
cocoa farmers who switched to coca used in cocaine production.  In
1984-1985, the Peruvian army had prevented the anti-drug police from
doing its work under the US-financed anti-drug campaign.  Shining Path
became the farmers' defenders but took a fifth of the coca profits and
imposed its own revolutionary justice by banning prostitution,
homosexuality, thievery, and drug abuse, and imposing harsh penalties
for any violations.

Shining Path hoped to make inroads into Peru's cities and coastal
areas from the poor in those areas because of economic chaos in the
country.  They combined conventional politics and terror, exploding
two car bombs near Government Palace.  They also urged a boycott of
the runoff vote between Mario Llosa and Alberto Fujimori to replace
President Garcia.

With several of the Shining Path leaders in prison and proposing a
peace plan to the government calling for a surrender of weapons and a
general amnesty, it appeared that the war between the guerrillas and
the government, which cost 20,000 lives might be over.  However, a
Shining Path faction led by "Comrade Feliciano" vowed to continue the
fight.</SUM>
