<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870501-0141"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">       

Poor farmers in Peru's Upper Huallaga Valley in the 1970s switched
from coffee and cacao to coca to meet the growing US demand for
cocaine, and hoping to become rich.  The Shining Path guerrillas began
wining support among those farmers because of anger with the
US-financed Peruvian anti-drug campaign.  In 1984-1985, the area was
in a state of emergency giving dictatorial control to the army who
prevented the anti-drug police from doing their work.  When it was
lifted, the army could no longer protect the "farmers", which opened
the way for the Shining Path.  The guerrillas presented themselves as
defenders of the farmers, but demanded a fifth of the coca crop and
exacted harsh penalties for resistance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880613-0161"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Osman Morote, top military leader of the Shining Path and considered
to be number 2 to founder Abimael Guzman, was captured by police.  The
Maoist group is said to have killed more than 10,000 in guerrilla
operations in Peru in the last eight years.  Recent reports of a
growing rivalry between Guzman and Morote leading to speculations that
Guzman betrayed Morote.  Shining Path leaders have gone underground
and Guzman has not been seen for years leading to rumors that he may
have died.  But most believe him to be alive and moving about in
various disguises.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880816-0234"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

A death squad opposed to the Shining Path threatened to kill district
Attorney Carlos Escobar if he investigates charges that soldiers
killed dozens of peasants.  Escobar is investigating charges that
troops rounded up peasants and accused them of being Shining Path
members and killed them.  The Rodrigo Franco Command has vowed to kill
a Shining Path member or sympathizer for every person slain by
guerrillas.  The command, which is named for a government party
official killed by the Shining Path, killed the lawyer for the number
two man in Shining Path, Osman Morote.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881227-0185"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Shining Path (Sendero Luminoso) began in the mountains but is moving
into the shantytowns that surround the capital.  The Maoist rebels are
becoming a political force and the poor residents in these areas are
ideal recruits.  Most of Peru is in economic collapse with an
inflation of nearly 2000%.  In the cities, the guerrillas combine
conventional politics with terror.  Enrique Bernales, chairman of a
committee on violence, said violence does not result from poverty
alone, but from humiliation, oppression, class hate, and racism.  The
Maoist founder of Shining Path gave his first interview since going
underground in 1980, saying that conditions were ripe for staging a
coup against the president and provoking economic chaos.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890907-0221"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Shining Path guerrillas dominate the Upper Huallaga Valley with their
own "revolutionary justice".  They banned drug abuse, prostitution,
homosexuality and thievery.  They exhibit an almost puritanical
honesty; they pay for what they take and return what they borrow.  A
Roman Catholic priest says "in a sense they enforce a hyper-Christian
morality-except they kill you if you break the rules".  The guerrillas
prohibit drug consumption, but defend coca production as an important
income source for the peasants so long as the coca paste is shipped
out of the country.  When the government police came to wipe out coca
production, they mistreated the peasants, robbing and raping.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900720-0113"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Peruvian police scored a coup against Shining Path by discovering an
archive and memorabilia repository of the organization.  However, this
success fell short of the claim by the Interior Minister that the site
was a headquarters and that the fight against the guerrillas was
almost won.  Peru ranks as one of the world's worst human-rights
offenders and the war between the government and Shining Path has cost
nearly 20,000 lives.  Alberto Fujimori will soon take over as
president, and it is believed that he will emphasize economic
development rather than military actions against Shining Path.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-51875"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Shining Path is not seeking reconciliation in Peru and is maintaining
its military position and ideology.  One observer believes that the
Guzman faction of the organization enjoys government favor and that
peace negotiations are being held in secret.  That observer, Carlos
Tapia, believes the government wants to strengthen Guzman's leadership
to counter a hard line faction led by Alberto Durand.  Many of
Guzman's faction are in prison but those of Durand aka "Feliciano" are
free and conduct terrorist acts.  One Guzman supporter in prison has
been allowed to visit other prisons to drum-up support for
Guzman.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-22942"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

President Fujimori has admitted that talks have been held between
government representatives and Shining Path leaders in prison, led by
Abimael Guzman who is serving a life sentence.  Supposedly the main
points of any peace agreement of shining Path and the government would
include the surrender of weapons and a general amnesty without victors
or vanquished.  According to a TV journalist, a ten point agreement
has been formed with its main aspect to "stop the popular war with its
four forms of fighting: terrorism, selective murders, sabotage, and
armed agitation and propaganda".  Government authorities have not
confirmed or denied the accuracy of the agreement.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

La Republica, an anti-Fujimori newspaper accepts a statement
attributed to Shining Path leadership as a peace proposal but cautions
that it may be a temporary tactical retreat by the terrorist
organization. They may have published the statement to discredit
President Fujimori.  Fujimori has claimed hat Peru has recovered the
initiative in confronting the Shining Path.  But the paper believes
that in the eyes of Shining Path leader Abimael Guzman it is merely an
armed truce until after the year 2000, when the organization would
resume it terrorist campaign.  Fujimori had promised to wipe out
Shining Path by 1995.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-56863"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Shining Path leaders under arrest have said the "peoples war" has
ended but those not under arrest, led by "Comrade Feliciano", believe
it must continue.  Feliciano's group must plan to rescue Abimael
Guzman, Shining Paths founder, "dead or alive" at any cost.  A five
point document emerged from Feliciano's group which reemphasized
positions from earlier Central Committee Plenums and also to determine
sanctions for those contributing to the arrest of Guzman.  Guzman and
those who support holding talks with the Administration denounced the
reports of the Feliciano group to go on with the war.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d53"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900607-0039"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="F">      

Peruvian President Garcia said that the Shining Path was pushing their
insurgency into Lima and other coastal towns after two car bombs
exploded near the Government Palace.  The Maoist guerrilla group has
its strength in the jungles and highlands but has had little success
in the urban areas where most of Peru's population lives.  Shining
Path has called on voters to boycott the presidential runoff between
free market activist Mario Llosa and centrist agricultural engineer
Alberto Fujimori.  Garcia called the upsurge in urban violence a
"desperate response" to raids by police.</SUM>
