<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0018"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Three hours of steady rain Monday provided a much-needed edge to crews
working to douse a blaze in Shoshone National Forest in Wyoming.

Meanwhile, illegal fireworks were blamed for causing a blaze that
raged across 2,200 acres near Yosemite National Park in California
over the weekend, and firefighters brought a four-day fire in
Michigan's Hiawatha National Forest under control Monday.

Four 20-person crews from Colorado, Utah and South Dakota were
expected to arrive at the Shoshone fire by Monday night, putting the
total number of firefighters to 430.

At least 60 firefighters brought the Hiawatha forest fire under
control Monday.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880901-0052"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Forest fires are burning in Alaska, California, Idaho, Montana,
Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming.

Thirty fires in Alaska have effected about 2.1 million acres.  While
in California, two new fires flared in over 18,000 acres. In Idaho, a
6,800-acre blaze raced to within a mile of ranches and grain fields
and a 7,900-acre fire burned out of control for the 12th day.

Meanwhile in Montana, firefighters are battling three large fires
burning primarily in wilderness areas covering 208,000 acres, and
173,000 acres burned in earlier fires.

Washington, Utah, Wyoming and Oregon combined, have blazes covering
close to 1 million acres.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0006"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

A lightning-sparked fire in Utah's Zion National Park spread out of
control to 1,000 acres Tuesday, but rain helped firefighters hold the
line on a 2,000-acre forest fire in Montana and two other major fires
in Wyoming.

A fire that scorched 1,130 acres in and around the Hiawatha Nation
Forest in Michigan was linked to a vehicle exhaust pipe.

Hundreds of small grass and brush fires were reported over the July 4
weekend, some caused by fireworks, in various parts of the country.

Kentucky's Division of Forestry reported 85 fires burned 1,267 acres
in the first four days of July.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890708-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Thousands more acres of brush and timber went up in smoke Saturday in
seven states in the West, threatening homes in some places.

Fire crews were at work in Utah, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico,
Arizona, California and Washington.  Elsewhere, four big fires burned
in interior Alaska, one having charred an estimated 24,000 acres.  A
fire in Georgia's Okefenoke swamp that burned 500 acres of habitat for
an endangered species of woodpecker was reported under control.

The Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho listed 7,000 to 7,500
people on the fire lines.  So far this season, the agency has had
31,000 fires reported.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070189-0080"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Firefighters got the upper hand Friday on an 8,200-acre brush fire in
Cleveland National Forest, California that destroyed 11 structures
near Lake Elsinore.

Meanwhile, a brush fire that burned more than 2,000 acres of mostly
rugged terrain in the Antelope Valley this week was contained by
firefighters Friday.

Authorities estimated that fighting the fire near Lake Elsinore will
wind up costing $1.5 million.

Investigators said the fire appears to have been caused by people near
a roadside store.  They appealed to the public for help in identifying
those responsible.

Residents evacuated from 200 homes near Lake Elsinore on Wednesday
have returned to their homes.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0109"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Firefighters in California, Michigan, Montana, Wyoming and Utah
battled holiday weekend fires that blackened more than 6,000 acres of
forest and wilderness areas.

Illegal fireworks were blamed for a blaze that swept over 2,200 acres
of Stanislaus National Forest in California.

In southern Utah's scenic Zion National Park, firefighters tried to
contain a 600-acre fire that was ignited by lightening.

Meanwhile, three-quarters of an inch of rain on Monday helped slow a
fire on 1,650 acres in the Shoshone National Forest in Wyoming.

A fire which burned 8,700 acres in Arizona's Tonto National Forest was
reported extinguished on Monday.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881216-0017"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

A panel was assembled last September after the worst fire season ever
in drought-primed Yellowstone National Park to examine the
government's "let it burn" forest fire policy.

The panel suggested a temporary halt to the "let it burn" policy
saying the Forest Service and the National Park Service needed more
time to refine their fire management plans.

The study came after some 249 fires seared 706,278 acres within the
park boundaries and 40 percent as much again in nearby national
forests.

The review team was asked to look at policies throughout the national
parks and wilderness areas, not just Yellowstone.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890714-0129"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Rain and higher humidity helped firefighters whip blazes in six
Western states, and a New Mexico fire that polluted a creek with ash
forced biologists to rescue hundreds of endangered fish in
long-handled nets.

Officials said 566 Gila trout, placed on the endangered species list
in 1967, were fished out of Diamond Creek and brought to the Mescalero
Fish Hatchery.

Meanwhile in California, firefighters battled an arson fire that has
charred more than 3,000 acres.

Firefighters and National Guardsmen contained one of the larger fires
covering 48,000 acres of the Pine Ridge in Nebraska on
Wednesday.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880801-0195"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Dale Smallwood, a criminal investigator for Missouri's Mark Twain
National Forest looks for clues to determine the cause of forest
fires. A split, charred tree stump may indicate that lightening was to
blame. On the other hand, Carbon particles indicate the exhaust of a
passing truck was the culprit. And there are other ways to tell a fire
was accidental.

However, he comes down to arson in most of his investigations.
Arsonists set 172 of the 296 Mark Twain fires that have broken out so
far this year. Smallwood estimates, 70 percent of the forest fires
each year in Missouri are deliberately set.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880923-0163"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">

Following the worst fire on record in Yellowstone National Park,
biologist, Donald Despain examines the forest looking for signs of new
life.  By next spring, many seeds released from rock-hard pine cones
will be fertilized by nutrients leaching into the soil from the
now-packed ash, will sprout.  Grasses and several types of wildflowers
are already sprouting less than seven weeks after the fire.

Next year, the ground cover replacing the park's burnt stands of aging
lodgepole pines should provide a 30-fold increase in plant
species. The new growth will attract a larger variety of birds and
other animal life to the area.</SUM>
