<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890316-0018"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 

The earliest known reliable record of a total solar eclipse dates from
1223 BC, about 150 years later than had previously been held
reliable. Clay tablets found in Syria provided basis for both dates
but translations and the calendars in use at the time are
uncertain. Time of year for the eclipse and appearance of Mars at the
same time led researchers to doubt the earlier date.  Concurrent
eclipse and appearance of Mars caused much anxiety.  Liver
examinations (not further identified) by the ancients noted on a
tablet said "danger" adding to the fears.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900721-0110"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Cloudy, rainy weather threatened to ruin viewing of a total solar
eclipse in Finland on July 20.  Best viewing, weather permitting would
be in the eastern town of Joensuu and about 10,000 people, including
foreigners have gathered there.  The eclipse begins at 4:52 am in
Helsinki and ends at 5:45 am with the total phase lasting for 83
seconds.  Finnair has arranged flights for some viewers to go above
the weather to view the eclipse. The eclipse will be total in an a 125
mile wide arc in northern arctic areas.  The last total eclipse viewed
in Finland was in 1945.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191174"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Solar eclipses occur somewhere on earth every six months but, on
average, at any given point only once every 360 years.  Fewer than a
third are total.  Because the moon's orbit is tilted, it crosses the
sun's path twice a year, otherwise an eclipse would occur with each
new moon.  The eclipse to occur on June 11, is of great interest
because of its long duration and wide path encompassing heavily
populated areas.  Eclipse study in 1868 provided evidence of helium
and in 1919, astronomers saw a star at the edge of the sun that should
have been behind the sun, thus confirming an Einstein prediction that
star's gravity can bend light.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06189077"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Eclipse watchers flocked to Hawaii and Mexico in anticipation for the
July 11 solar eclipse.  The Baja area of Mexico will get the largest
influx because of its easy access from the US and since the eclipse
duration will last longest there.  Mexico's government has formed an
Intersecretarial Commission to oversee production of protective
viewing lenses.  Sun-worshiping Aztecs in ancient times viewed
eclipses as bad omens.  A futuristic escape from eclipse threats was
proposed by "Angel" of the Intergalactic Guardian Command who
advocates taking spaceships to the fourth dimension.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193235"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

The San Jose Mercury News was providing readers with information
concerning timing of the coming solar eclipse and viewing hints and
warnings.  In the Bay area the eclipse will peak at 10:20 AM and last
for 24 minutes but only about half of the sun's diameter will be
blocked.  No one should look directly at the sun even with ordinary or
makeshift sunglasses.  Viewers should look at the shadows or punch a
hole in a piece of paper and look down at the shadow.  Without
precautions, serious eye damage can occur.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880318-0051"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Thousands of people in parts of Indonesia and the Southern Philippines
reacted to a total eclipse of the sun which lasted nearly four minutes
on March 18, 1988.  A partial eclipse was visible in a broad area from
India across southern Asia and Pacific Islands and into the Gulf of
Alaska.  Philippine President Corazon Aquino flew to Davao, 650 miles
south of Manila to view the event.  About 20,000 tourists and
scientists went to the Philippines for the eclipse.  Thousands of
Asians conducted religious and traditional observances during the
eclipse.  The next total eclipse to affect this area of the
Philippines is at least 50 years away.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193081"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

More than 40 million people from Hawaii to Central America viewed the
June 11, long lasting eclipse, the likes of which will not be seen for
151 years.  Clouds and fog prevented many from viewing the eclipse in
stages and only experience the eclipse when totally dark.  Many
viewers in Hawaii had an added treat provided by a dazzling eruption
of Mauna Loa at the height of the eclipse. Scores of astronomers and
amateurs turned Hawaii into an eclipse theme park. "Eclipsefests" and
shops selling souvenirs sprang up in many areas in the eclipse
path.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901231-0012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">     

Mexico is forming elaborate plans months in advance of the "solar
eclipse of the century" which will occur on July 11.  The 165 mile
wide path extends from Hawaii, across Mexico to Brazil and the area
will go dark for almost seven minutes, the maximum length of time for
a total solar eclipse.  The Latin American rainy season may hamper
viewing.  Eclipse 1991, a Mexican government commission, expects a
huge financial gain for the country.  Tourist facilities are heavily
booked and expected to reach capacity.  Ships are being prepared to
serve as floating hotels and viewing platforms.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06161012"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Airline reservations, rental cars, and hotel rooms in prime viewing
areas for the coming solar eclipse are nearly impossible to get.
Hawaii and Mexico's Baja are the most favored areas because of usually
clear skies.  Hawaii may be the glamor viewing area, but crowds will
be greatest in Baja.  The eclipse will last longest, nearly seven
minutes, in the town of Tuxpan on Mexico's west coast.  Mexican
authorities, concerned about overloading of accommodations and
facilities will have a checkpoint at Guerrero Negro, halfway down the
peninsula and turn back travelers without evidence of
accommodations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890307-0150"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

During a partial solar eclipse, dozens of people at Caltec in Pasadena
used telescopes to see mountains on the edge of the moon silhouetted
against the sun. They got an added visual treat: gas jets also visible
were on the sun's surface producing the most intense solar flare since
1984.  The partial eclipse was somewhat visible west of a line from
Mazatlan, Mexico, to Chicago, and most defined from Anchorage, Alaska.
Scientists had warned of possible eye damage from staring directly at
the sun.  Total solar eclipses are visible from any given location
once every four centuries, but from somewhere every two years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d08"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06192123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Guatemalan members of the Brotherhood of the Mayan God Maximon plan
traditional celebrations during the coming solar eclipse.  They will
burn incense, ring church bells and wave farming tools to scare away
the gargantuan bat they believe obscures the sun.  Californians are
buying glasses safe for eclipse viewing and many are planning trips to
planetariums for a better view of the longest-lasting solar eclipse
until the year 2132.  Many plan to fly to Mexico or Hawaii where the
eclipse will be total.</SUM>
