
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900822-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-08-22-90 0210EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i PM-Gulf-Chronology     08-22 0703</FIRST>
<SECOND>PM-Gulf-Chronology,0725</SECOND>
<HEAD>Persian Gulf Crisis Heated Up throughout August</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Gulf Rdp, Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a chronology of the Iraq-Kuwait crisis:
   
   Aug. 1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks with Kuwait on Iraqi grievances
over oil pricing, Kuwaiti war loans to Iraq, and Iraqi claims on
Kuwaiti territory.
   Aug. 2 _ Iraq's powerful army overruns Kuwait before dawn,
seizing the emir's palace and other government buildings. President
Bush orders U.S. economic embargo against Iraq.
   Aug. 3 _ Shelling and gunfire echo through Kuwait City as
Kuwaiti forces mount last-ditch resistance. Iraqi troops push to
within few miles of Saudi Arabian border. State Department says
American civilians are trapped in Kuwait.
   Aug. 4 _ Iraq announces new military government for
Iraqi-occupied Kuwait. European Community imposes trade embargo on
Iraq.
   Aug. 5 _ Kuwait's new Iraqi-installed government claims Iraqi
troops begin pulling out of Kuwait, but United States skeptical.
Japan suspends Iraqi oil imports.
   Aug. 6 _ U.N. Security Council orders worldwide embargo on trade
with Iraq. In Saudi Arabia, U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
confers with Saudi leaders about defending the oil kingdom against
any Iraqi attack.
   Aug. 7 _ Bush orders deployment of U.S. combat troops and
warplanes to Saudi Arabia. A fresh U.S. Navy task force sets sail
for region. Turkey cuts off exports from Iraqi oil pipeline through
Turkish territory.
   Aug. 8 _ Iraq declares Kuwait has been annexed. Britain agrees
to join multinational force in the gulf. Other oil-producing
nations indicate they will step up production to make up for
embargoed Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil.
   Aug. 9 _ American troops take up position in Saudi Arabia's
oil-producing province. Iraq says it has canceled its estimated $15
billion debt, incurred during the Iran-Iraq war, to Kuwait. Iraq
closes its borders for foreigners, trapping thousands of Americans
and other Westerners in Iraq and Kuwait.
   Aug. 10 _ Twelve of 20 Arab League states vote to send all-Arab
military force to join Americans in defense of Saudi Arabia. First
Egyptian contingent arrives in Saudi Arabia. Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein urges Arabs to sweep ``emirs of oil'' from power in gulf
states.
   Aug. 11 _ Saudi Arabian anti-aircraft batteries reportedly fire
on Iraqi reconnaissance planes near Kuwaiti border. Thousands of
Arabs demonstrate in Yemen and Jordan against United States. Bush
suggests Saddam risks overthrow from within unless he ``changes his
spots.''
   Aug. 12 _ Saddam says he is ready to resolve the gulf crisis if
Israel withdraws from territories it occupies. Secretary of State
James A. Baker III says the U.S. Navy will interdict Iraqi oil
shipments.
   Aug. 13 _ Iraqi troops in Kuwait round up American and British
visitors from two hotels in Kuwait for transport to Iraq. King
Hussein of Jordan secretly meets with Saddam in Baghdad.
   Aug. 14 _ King Hussein flies to Washington in effort to mediate
U.S.-Iraq confrontation.
   Aug. 15 _ Saddam offers to withdraw from Iran territories and
release prisoners of war in bid to with favor with Tehran against
the United States.
   Aug. 16 _ Bush pressed King Hussein to close Iraq's access to
the sea through Aqaba, Jordan, but Hussein indicated Bush made
little headway.
   Aug. 17 _ Bush has decided to call up military reserves to meet
shortages of doctors, cargo handlers and other specialists in the
gulf crisis.
   Aug. 18 _ A U.S. frigate fired warning shots across the bow of
an Iraqi oil tanker in the Gulf of Oman and U.S. forces briefly
went to battle stations over the incident.
   Aug. 19 _ Saddam offers to free all foreigners in Iraq and
Kuwait if the United States promises to withdraw its forces from
Saudi Arabia and guarantee that an international embargo will be
lifted.
   Aug. 20 _ Iraq announces it has carried out a plan to move
Western hostages to vital military installations to use as human
shields to deter any U.S. attack and warned its people not to try
to hide any of the thousands of foreigners trapped in the country.
   Aug. 21 _ Arab and Western nations condemn Saddam's threats
against hostages and continue adding armed forces to the region.
Saddam defends the holding of foreigners and promises ``a major
catastrophe'' if war breaks out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

