
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP900911-0198 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-11-90 2312EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>u i AM-GulfRdp 4thLd-Writethru a0804 09-11 1335</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Gulf Rdp, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0804,1370</SECOND>
<HEAD>Cracks Appear in U.N. Trade Embargo Against Iraq</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhotos AMM1,2,3,4,5</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: INSERTS two grafs after 17th graf `During the' to ADD quotes
from Bush speech. Pickup 18th graf pvs, `In other...'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOCELYN NOVECK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Cracks appeared Tuesday in the U.N. trade embargo against Iraq
as Saddam Hussein sought to circumvent the economic noose around
his country.
   Japan, meanwhile, announced it would increase its aid to
countries hardest hit by enforcing the sanctions. Hoping to defuse
criticism that it is not doing its share to oppose Baghdad, Japan
said up to $2 billion in aid may be sent to nations most affected
by the U.N. embargo on Iraq.
   President Bush on Tuesday night promised a joint session of
Congress and a nationwide radio and television audience that
``Saddam Hussein will fail'' to make his conquest of Kuwait
permanent.
   ``America must stand up to aggression, and we will,'' said Bush,
who added that the U.S. military may remain in the Saudi Arabian
desert indefinitely.
   ``I cannot predict just how long it will take to convince Iraq
to withdraw from Kuwait,'' Bush said.
   More than 150,000 U.S. troops have been sent to the Persian Gulf
region to deter a possible Iraqi invasion of Saudi Arabia.
   Bush's aides said the president would follow his address to
Congress with a televised message for the Iraqi people, declaring
the world is united against their government's invasion of Kuwait.
Saddam had offered Bush time on Iraqi TV.
   The Philippines and Namibia, the first of the developing nations
to respond to an offer Monday by Saddam of free oil _ in exchange
for sending their own tankers to get it _ said no to the Iraqi
leader.
   Saddam's offer was seen as a none-too-subtle attempt to bypass
the U.N. embargo, in effect since four days after Iraq's Aug. 2
invasion of Kuwait, by getting poor countries to dock their tankers
in Iraq.
   But according to a State Department survey, Cuba and Romania
have struck oil deals with Iraq and companies elsewhere are trying
to continue trade with Baghdad, all in defiance of U.N. sanctions.
Romania denies the allegation.
   The report, made available to The Associated Press, said some
Eastern European countries also are trying to maintain their
military sales to Iraq.
   A well-informed source in Tehran told The Associated Press that
Iran has agreed to an Iraqi request to exchange food and medicine
for up to 200,000 barrels of refined oil a day and cash payments.
There was no official comment from Tehran or Baghdad on the
reported food-for-oil deal.
   But the source, who requested anonymity, said the deal was
struck during Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz's visit Sunday to
Tehran, the first by a senior Iraqi official since the 1980-88 gulf
war. After the visit, the two countries announced they would resume
diplomatic relations.
   Well-informed oil industry sources in the region, contacted by
The AP, said that although Iran is a major oil exporter itself, it
currently has to import about 150,000 barrels of refined oil a day
for domestic use because of damages to refineries in the gulf war.
   Along similar lines, ABC News reported that following Aziz's
visit, Iraq is apparently prepared to give Iran all the oil it
wants to make up for the damage Iraq inflicted on Iran during their
conflict.
   Secretary of State James A. Baker III, meanwhile, met in Moscow
with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, two days after
the U.S.-Soviet summit that produced a joint demand that Iraq
withdraw from Kuwait.
   During the summit, Bush encouraged Mikhail Gorbachev to withdraw
190 Soviet military specialists from Iraq, where they remain to
fulfill contracts. Shevardnadze told the Soviet parliament Tuesday
the specialists had not reneged on those contracts for fear it
would jeopardize the 5,800 Soviet citizens in Iraq.
   In his speech, Bush said his heart went out to the families of
the hundreds of Americans held hostage by Iraq, but he declared,
``Our policy cannot change, and it will not change. America and the
world will not be blackmailed.''
   The president added: ``Vital issues of principle are at stake.
Saddam Hussein is literally trying to wipe a country off the face
of the Earth.''
   In other developments:
   _A U.S. diplomat in Baghdad said Tuesday up to 800 Americans and
Britons will fly out of Iraqi-occupied Kuwait this week, most of
them women and children leaving their husbands behind. Saddam has
said he is keeping foreign men as human shields against attack.
   On Monday, a planeload of 164 Westerners arrived in Baltimore
from Iraq. Evacuees spoke of food shortages in Kuwait, nighttime
gunfire and Iraqi roundups of young people suspected of involvement
in the resistance.
   ``There is no law and order,'' said Thuraya, 19, who would not
give her last name. ``A soldier can rape a father's daughter in
front of him and he can't do anything about it.''
   _The State Department said Iraq had told U.S. officials that
American males residing in Iraq and Kuwait who were born in Arab
countries will be allowed to leave. Iraq generally has not let
American males leave. It was not known how many men the Iraqi move
could affect.
   _A Pentagon spokesman said ``some increase in military
activity'' had been detected inside Iraq near its borders with
Turkey and Syria. He said there was little indication hostilities
are imminent.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said the cost of the U.S. military
buildup in the Middle East was rising above the $1 billion-a-month
estimate generally used by government officials. He said the total
cost _ if no shooting war breaks out _ could total $15 billion in
the next fiscal year beginning Oct. 1.
   Cheney promised disgruntled lawmakers ``a significant increase''
in help from Arab nations and other U.S. allies for Operation
Desert Shield.
   Japan, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the
crisis in the gulf, said Tuesday it may give $2 billion to Egypt,
Jordan and Turkey, hit hardest by the U.N. prohibition on trade
with Iraq.
   ``The pressure from abroad is getting so strong,'' said Hiroyasu
Horio, an official with the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry.
   Local news reports said the aid would be extended through the
World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and $600 million would
be sent as early as mid-September.
   On Friday, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady visited Tokyo on a
world tour seeking $10.5 billion to help Egypt, Jordan and Turkey.
   Japan has already promised a $1 billion aid package for
multinational peacekeeping forces in Saudi Arabia, including food,
water, vehicles and prefabricated housing for non-military uses.
   But critics in the United States have said Japan should do more
because its economy depends heavily on oil from the Middle East.
Japan imports 99 percent of its oil.
   Japan's constitution bans the use of force in settling
international disputes and Japanese law restricts the military to
Japanese territory, except for ceremonial occasions.
   On Monday, Saddam offered developing nations free oil if they
would send their tankers to pick it up.
   The first two countries to respond Tuesday _ the Philippines and
Namibia _ said no. Manila said it had already fulfilled its oil
requirements, and Namibia said it would not ``sell its
sovereignty'' for Iraqi oil.
   Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez dismissed Saddam's
offer of free oil as a ``propaganda ploy.'' Venezuela, an OPEC
member, has led a drive among oil-producing nations to boost
production to make up for the shortfall caused by the loss of Iraqi
and Kuwaiti oil from the world market.
   Their oil makes up 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. Only
Saudi Arabia has higher reserves.
   But according to the State Department, Cuba, which faces an oil
deficit because of reduced Soviet deliveries, has received a
shipment of Iraqi petroleum since U.N. sanctions were imposed five
weeks ago. And Romania, it said, expects to receive oil indirectly
from Iraq.
   Romania's ambassador to the United States, Virgil
Constantinescu, denied that claim Tuesday, calling it ``absolutely
false and without foundation.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>

