<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA012590-0174 LA040689-0056 LA032789-0038 AP890325-0029
AP890325-0143 AP890404-0260 LA043089-0197 AP890326-0081 LA032589-0044
AP900323-0036 LA040789-0051 AP900313-0191 AP890501-0176 AP890502-0205"
SELECTOR="F"                                                                  
SUMMARIZER="G">   

On 24 March 1989, the oil tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on a reef
about 25 miles from Valdez, Alaska, spilling over 8.4 million gallons
of crude oil into Prince William Sound.  Exxon stated that the captain
was not on the bridge when the accident occurred and the third mate in
command did not have a proper pilot's license.  Both men and a
helmsman were relieved of duty.  The critical cleanup effort was slow
and ineffective and the size of the spill, plus the fact that it was
in such a productive area, prompted complaints from residents and
environmentalists.  Within two days, the oil had spread over 100 miles
and the toll on wildlife was mounting.  In May, Exxon officials
released a revised plan for cleaning 364 miles of Alaskan coastline.
In June, the tanker was successfully refloated.  By early 1990, the
worst was over but Exxon's total cleanup costs were $1.38 billion,
only 5 to 9 percent of spilled oil was recovered, and thousands of
animals had died.  In February, a federal grand jury indicted Exxon on
five criminal counts.  In March, a jury found the Valdez skipper
guilty of negligent discharge of oil but innocent of more serious
charges.</SUM>
