<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0029"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 

The calm waters of Prince William Sound have stymied efforts to
disperse the 11.3 million gallons of oil spilled when the tanker Exxon
Valdez hit a reef outside Valdez, the northernmost ice-free port in
the U.S.  A Coast Guard spokesman said the use of chemicals to
disperse and sink crude oil failed because the agents depend on rough
seas to break up the oil.  Officials plan to pump the remaining oil
aboard the tanker into another tanker.  Environmentalists are
concerned for two reasons: the size of the spill and the fact that it
is in such a sensitive and productive area.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032589-0044"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

An Exxon oil tanker ran aground on a reef Friday about 25 miles from
the city of Valdez spilling about 8.4 million gallons of crude oil
into Alaska's Prince William Sound at a reported rate of 10,000
barrels per hour.  There were no reports of injuries to people aboard
the ship or to wildlife.  Local residents and environmentalists
complained about the slow pace of the cleanup, noting that the slick
was huge, looked devastating, and would affect everything in the food
chain.  The spill is expected too add fuel to a campaign by
environmentalists to prevent further oil development in Alaska.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0143"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Some 10,080,000 gallons of crude oil spilled early Friday when the
tanker Exxon Valdez ran against a reef 25 miles outside Valdez,
Alaska.  One authority called it a major environmental catastrophe,
noting that the only way for the oil to escape out to sea was to
traverse the entire length of Prince William Sound thereby
contaminating the shoreline.  Other authorities criticized the slow
response to the spill and noted the danger to wildlife, especially a
key herring spawning area.  The ship struck the reef while maneuvering
to avoid icebergs.  The vessel's captain,i Joseph Hazelwood, has
worked for Exxon for 20 years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890326-0081"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

The Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound near Valdez, the
southern end of the Alaska pipeline, has been declared a disaster
area.  The toll on the waterway's abundant wildlife is mounting and
oil is spread over an area of about 100 miles.  The Exxon Co. said the
captain was not on the bridge when the accident occurred and the third
mate, who did not have a proper pilot's license, was in command.  It
is believed this action violated federal regulations.  The captain,
third mate, and a helmsman were relieved of duty and subpoenaed by the
National Transportation Safety Board.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032789-0038"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Exxon Shipping Co. said Sunday that an unqualified mate was piloting
the Exxon Valdez when it crashed, unleashing the worst oil spill in US
history, and that the tanker was involved in two separate accidents
that night in Prince William Sound.  Cleanup efforts continued slowly.
The Coast Guard served subpoenas on the captain, helmsman, and third
mate and a team from the National Transportation Safety Board arrived
Sunday to probe the cause of the accident.  Experts from wildlife and
research institutes are setting up rehabilitation centers.  The Coast
Guard maintains that Exxon itself will have to clean up the
spill.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890404-0260"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Exxon crews Tuesday finished pumping oil out of the tanker Exxon
Valdez and will attempt to move the vessel to a remote cove for
repairs.  The family of the fired Exxon Valdez captain, Joseph
Hazelwood, said that skipper wants to surrender to face criminal
charges pending advice from his lawyer.  He is accused of operating
the ship while under the influence of alcohol, reckless endangerment,
and negligent discharge of oil.  A multi-million dollar class-action
lawsuit was filed in federal court in California against Exxon Corp.,
charging that the spill has led to gas prices of 10 to 15 cents more a
gallon.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA043089-0197"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

The Coast Guard confirmed Saturday that a fresh oil sheen has seeped
from the ruptured Exxon Valdez and a complete cleanup of the tanker is
impossible.  Oil clinging to the tanks inside mixes with water and
causes sheen that is impossible to remove unless the tanker is
steam-cleaned, and nobody intends to do that.  Also, nobody in the
other states wants it, and it may go to a foreign port.  The Alaska
State Senate passed several bills aimed at protection from another
devastating spill.  Exxon has paid out $500,000 to fishermen on claims
of lost work and is processing 300 more.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890501-0176"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Exxon officials Monday released a revised plan for cleansing 364 miles
of Alaskan coastline fouled by the nation's largest oil spill.  Since
March 24, when an Exxon tanker struck a reef outside Valdez and poured
more than 10 million gallons of crude into Prince William Sound, Exxon
has financed cleanup crews.  The company's strategy divides Alaska's
oil-tainted shores into four categories from the most heavily polluted
to the "only lightly oiled."  The worst areas would be targeted
immediately.  The gunk or sludge that resists treatment will be burned
or buried.  Both methods likely will require exemptions from local
environmental laws.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890502-0205"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

The Coast Guard Commandant Paul Yost, the top federal official
tracking the Exxon plan to clean up the Alaskan oil spill, said the
plan was poorly drafted and lacking in specifics.  He did not reject
it, saying he wanted to meet with Exxon and state officials.  Consumer
activist Ralph Nader and others blasted Exxon for failing to be
prepared for the spill and not rapidly responding to the accident.
They also questioned increases in gas prices and called for a boycott
of Exxon.  Yost said he would make a decision on the plan within the
week.  Exxon called the boycott unjust.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040689-0056"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Exxon salvage crews successfully refloated the stricken tanker Exxon
Valdez on Wednesday as its former captain surrendered to authorities
in New York to face criminal charges in the oil spill.  The tanker
refloat went well and it was taken to a cove on uninhabited Naked
Island 25 miles to the southwest.  Exxon officials were reluctant to
discuss where the tanker would be taken for permanent repairs.  No
people have been killed or seriously injured but oil has seriously
disrupted the rich Prince William Sound fishing industry.  Animal
rescue teams estimate the spill has killed several thousand birds and
hundreds of sea otters.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040789-0051"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Because of the Exxon Valdez oil spill, Alaska's governor threatened to
close down the trans- Alaska oil pipeline unless its owners meet his
state-ordered terms for improved safety and cleanup measures.  Even if
overturned, the closedown would last long enough to drive home a point
about cleanup response.  The oil pipeline owners have offered a list
of ideas.  Federal officials are probing the possibility that the
Exxon Valdez was on autopilot shortly before it ran aground and that
the electronic navigation aid confused the third mate, who complained
that he was unable to get the vessel to respond to the helm.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012590-0174"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Exxon Corp. increased its estimate of the total 1989 costs of cleaning
up the massive Alaskan oil spill to $2 billion dollars and another
$500 million will be taken in the fourth quarter for cleanup costs.
The figure does not include liability from more than 150 lawsuits that
Exxon faces from the spill.  The fourth quarter charge is in addition
to $880 million set aside in the first and second quarters, bring
Exxon's total cleanup costs for the year to $1.38 billion.  Exxon's
size is said to insulate it from serious long-term financial damage.
Exxon's stock could suffer from continuing negative publicity.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900313-0191"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

A year after the wreck of the Exxon Valdez, the Alaskan environmental
authorities report that hundreds of gallons of oil are locked up under
hundreds of beaches all over Prince William Sound.  The worst is over
but assessing the continuing damage has just begun.  When Exxon's $2
billion dollar cleanup ended in mid-September, it had recovered only 5
to 9 percent of the oil spilled.  Thousands of animals and birds have
died.  The skipper of the Exxon Valdez is scheduled for trial and a
federal grand jury issue criminal indictments against Exxon, which
already faces more than 150 civil lawsuits.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900323-0036"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="G">    

Chronology highlights of Exxon Valdez oil spill: March 24, 1989: Exxon
Valdez tankers runs aground on reef south of Valdez, Alaska spilling
nearly 11 million gallons of oil into Prince William Sound; September
15, 1989: Exxon suspends its beach cleanup for winter.  Alaska
officials disagree it was a job well done; November 8, 1989: US House
of Representatives passes bill preserving states' ability to adopt
stricter oil spill liability laws than federal government; February
27, 1990: A federal grand jury indicts Exxon on five criminal
accounts; March 22, 1990: Jury finds Valdez skipper guilty of
negligent discharge of oil but innocent of more serious charges.</SUM>
