<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP900111-0061 WSJ880909-0170 AP880909-0135 AP900419-0001
AP900418-0106 WSJ900419-0016 WSJ910516-0166"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

Cancer researchers speculate that genes which oversee the body's
production of interferon play a role in warding off cancer
development.  Researchers associated the loss of those genes and the
development of lymphoblastic leukemia, the third leading killer of
children. The genes that control the production of interferon are
located on chromosome 9 and are frequently missing in those with
lymphoblastic leukemia.

A study of 248,046 US veterans showed that heavy smokers are 93% more
likely to die from monocytic and myeloid luekemias than are
non-smokers.  The percentages for moderate and light smokers were 75%
and 31% respectively.  This study does not prove a causal link, but if
one is found, then smoking is a more important cause of leukemia than
all other known causes combined.

A new drug developed at Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation appears
to be effective against hairy cell leukemia.  The drug,
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, or 2-CdA, was given to 12 patients four years
ago and in 11 of those the disease has not reappeared.  All 24
patients have been treated with this drug with almost complete
success. A variation of an acne drug related to vitamin A, called
tretinoin may be a potential treatment for acute promyelocytic
leukemia.  </SUM>
