<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP900111-0061 WSJ880909-0170 AP880909-0135 AP900419-0001
AP900418-0106 WSJ900419-0016 WSJ910516-0166"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
    
Cancer researchers speculate that genes which oversee the body's
production of interferon may play a role in warding off cancer
development.  Researchers at the University of Chicago found an
association between the loss of these genes and the development of
acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common childhood leukemia.
Production of interferon is controlled by two genes, alpha and beta-1,
that are close together on chromosome 9.  This section was frequently
missing in those with lymphoblastic leukemia. This type of leukemia is
the third leading killer of children after accidents and birth
defects.

A study of 248,046 US veterans conducted by Dr.  Leo Kinlen of the
University of Edinburgh and E. Rogot of the US National Institutes of
Health showed that heavy smokers are 93% more likely to die from
monocytic and myeloid leukemias than are non-smokers.  Among moderate
and light smokers, the percentages of those more likely to succumb to
the diseases are 75% and 31% respectively.  This study does not prove
a causal link of smoking to leukemia, but if a causal link can be
established then smoking is a more important cause of leukemia than
all other known causes combined.  Leukemia is the fifth greatest cause
of cancer deaths.

A new drug developed at Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation in
California appears to be effective against hairy cell leukemia and may
fight other types of blood cancer as well.  The drug, called
2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, or 2-CdA was given to 12 hairy cell patients
four years ago and in 11 the disease disappeared and not reappeared.
The patients underwent just a seven day treatment and suffered almost
none of the usual debilitating side effects associated with
chemotherapy.  In all, 24 patients have been treated with this drug
with almost complete success.  These results must be replicated by
other researchers before definitive conclusions can be made.  The drug
is easy to produce and likely to be less expensive.

A variation of an acne drug may be a potential treatment for acute
promyelocytic leukemia according to researchers at Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. In this type of leukemia, white blood
cells turn malignant at an immature stage of development. The drug is
known as tretinoin and is in a class of chemicals called retinoic acid
and is related to vitamin A.  Patients with this type of leukemia have
a piece of chromosome 17 that has reattached to chromosome 15.  </SUM>
