<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900111-0061" 
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

Cancer researchers speculate that genes that oversee the body's
production of interferon may play a role in warding off cancer
development. Researchers at the University of Chicago found an
association between the loss of these genes and development of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common childhood leukemia.  Some
genes, called oncogenes may trigger cancer.  Cancer may also occur
when other genes, known as anti-oncogenes are missing.  Production of
interferon is controlled by two genes (alpha and beta-1) that are
close together on chromosome 9.  Researchers found that this section
of the chromosome was frequently missing in those with lymphoblastic
leukemia.  </SUM

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880909-0170"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A study of 248,046 US veterans showed that heavy smokers (more than 21
cigarettes a day) had a 93% greater chance of developing fatal
leukemia than those who never smoked.  For smoking between 10 and 20
cigarettes a day the increased risk was 75%, and 31% for fewer than
ten cigarettes a day.  The latest analysis doesn't prove a causal
link, but an editorial in a British Medical Journal said that if the
link is causal, "then smoking is a more important cause of leukemia
than all other known causes combined."  Leukemia is the third leading
cause of death among US children and fifth overall in cancer
deaths. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880909-0135"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A study conducted by Dr. Leo Kinlen of the University of Edinburgh and
E.  Rogot of the US National Institutes of Health shows that smokers
are more likely to die from monocytic and myeloid leukemias than are
non-smokers.  The data also suggested that even ex-smokers are
significantly more at risk than those who never smoked. Professor Wald
of St. Bartholemew's Hospital in London cautioned that no
cause-and-effect had been established but, he added, "the balance of
evidence suggests that smoking may cause leukemia."  He also wrote
that leukemia should be added to the World Health Organizations' list
of tobacco-related causes of death.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900419-0001"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A new drug developed at Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation appears
to be effective against hairy cell leukemia and may fight other types
of blood cancer as well.  The medicine, called 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine,
or 2-CdA is being called the drug of choice in the treatment of hairy
cell leukemia and is being tested against lymphocytic leukemia,
non-Hodgkins lymphoma and cutaneous T cell lymphoma.  Two other drugs,
interferon and deoxycoformycin, similar to 2-CdA, have been developed
in recent years but interferon is less effective and both produce side
effect.  The only unwanted effect of 2-CdA was a few days of
fever. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900418-0106"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A new drug called 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine, or 2-CdA, has produced
complete remissions in almost all hairy cell leukemia patients
treated.  It may well be the drug of choice in treating hairy cell
leukemia.  It has also been used successfully against chronic
lymphocytic leukemia.  Doctors gave the drug four years ago to 12
hairy cell leukemia patients.  In 11 the disease disappeared and has
not reappeared.  In all, 24 patients have been treated with the drug
with almost complete success.  However, doctors at the Scripps Clinic
and Research Foundation caution that longer follow up will be
necessary before they can be sure of an actual cure.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900419-0016"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A new cancer drug called 2-CdA proved nearly 100% effective treating
12 patients with hairy cell leukemia.  The patients underwent just a
seven day treatment and suffered almost none of the usual debilitating
side effects associated with chemotherapy, yet, they have been
disease free for four years.  Results must be replicated by other
researchers before definitive conclusions can be made.  The drug is
easy to produce and likely to be less expensive.  Dr. Lawrence Piro of
the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation said it has also been used
effectively in initial trials to treat more common forms of leukemia.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910516-0166"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">

A variation of an acne drug may be a potential treatment for adult
leukemia according to researchers at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center.  In this type of leukemia, white blood cells turn malignant at
an immature stage of development.  The acne drug may trigger these
cells to divide and mature and then die a natural death.  The drug is
known as tretinoin and is in a class of chemicals called retinoic acid
and is related to vitamin A.  The form of leukemia that appears to
respond is acute promyelocytic leukemia.  Patients with this type of
leukemia have a piece of chromosome 17 that has reattached to
chromosome 15.  </SUM>
