<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
Democrats faced a difficult situation in 1991.  President Bush, high
in polls, was running soon after the Gulf War, viewed here as
successful.

Democratic candidates, reluctant to declare, have delayed their
decisions; the campaign thus getting off to a late start in all areas
from funding to staffing, to mastering the issues.

Al Gore bowed out of the race early, following Sens. Bradley and
Rockefeller and Rep.  Gebhardt.  Sen. Tsongas, an early entrant,
remained, as did Sens. Harkin and Kerrey, Govs. Wilder, Clinton and
Brown.  Gov. Cuomo remained uncommitted.

As the Florida convention approached in December, 1991, the campaign
began to speed up.  It included a non-binding straw poll and was
followed by a nationally televised debate by the six candidates, also
preparing year-end financial reports.  All these activities revealed
more about this campaign.

In the debate, most candidates agreed to help the middle class and the
economy with tax cuts.  While disagreeing elsewhere, they generally
attacked President Bush.  However, Gov. Clinton, the straw poll
winner, praised the Gulf war.

As the campaign progressed, discussion developed about moderate
vs. liberal candidates.  A Wall Street Journal article theorized that
moderate Democrats often disguise themselves as liberals, thus losing
moderate voters.  The report advised them to stick to moderate
principles even if they lose liberal votes.  Moderate issues mentioned
were values, race, the party and national security.

Bush was seen as strong on national security.  Democrats responded by
blurring the distinction between foreign and domestic policy to prove
their ability in this area.  Their goal: strengthen the (weak) economy
by creating new international markets while aiding struggling nations.

Bush has been plagued by a huge deficit and a stubborn recession.
Democrats have responded with a number of corrective plans.  Most
favored tax cuts; other suggestions were increased spending on
infrastructure, health care reform and a lowered Fed rate.

Meanwhile, they had to raise money, and while most boasted of being
beltway outsiders, nevertheless employed insider lawyer-lobbyists to
help.  The late start, recession and Bush's popularity contributed to
their financial deficits while Bush raised over $5 million for
Republicans.

Despite this, a Wall Street poll considered Bush was in trouble in
early 1992.  With the economy plunging and Saddam in power, the
Journal felt Bush had made a mistake by assuming too much blame.  They
predicted a close 1992 election, but a Bush win.  
</SUM>

