<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880331-0140" 
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

The unofficial tornado season runs from April through June in Texas
and other Tornado Alley states.  From 1951 through 1986, there have
been an average of 118 tornadoes in Texas per year.  A tornado watch
means conditions are suitable for a tornado to develop.  A warning
means one has already been spotted.  Plan what you'll do if caught in
a tornado.  If at home, go to the basement.  If in a car, take cover
in the nearest ditch or depression.  Flying debris causes most
fatalities in a tornado, so, squat down, cover your head and present a
low profile.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880419-0131"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
 
Madison, Florida, a town of 3500 people, is about fifty miles east of
Tallahassee.  Before dawn, a tornado blasted through town, destroying
several homes and a college library, blowing off rooftops, flipping
cars and leaving four people dead and fifteen injured.  Two of the
deaths occurred in mobile homes that were blown apart.  It lasted
under thirty minutes.  Two other tornadoes struck about 100 miles west
of Madison.  All were spawned by a storm system that struck across the
Southeast.  A belt of thunderstorms being pushed by a cold front
caused hail and damaging winds in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and
Georgia.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890227-0016"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
  
In 1988 the nation's more than 700 tornadoes caused 32 deaths, down
from 59 a year earlier and the long-term average of 99.
Meteorologists attribute the decline in deaths to increased public
awareness of the storms.  1988 also witnessed the largest one-day
outbreak of twisters in fourteen years when 57 tornadoes tore through
four states on Mother's Day.  Few in winter, tornadoes generally
increase in March leading to an April average of 109, a average May
peak of 166 and tapering in June to an average of150.  The typical
tornado is about 50 yards wide and travels about two miles on the
ground.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890403-0123"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
   
Here are some tornado facts.  The portion of a thunderstorm adjacent
to large hail is where tornadoes are most likely to occur.  They
generally track southwest to northeast.  Less than two percent of all
tornadoes are classified as violent, with wind speeds of more than
200mph and a path averaging twenty-six miles.  The longest tornado on
record went 219 miles across Missouri, Illinois and Indiana in March
1925.  Tornadoes travel and average of 30mph, but can stand still or
go 70mph.  The largest outbreak of twisters on record was in April
1974 when 148 storms killed 300 people in 13 states over two
days.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0115"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
 
In Huntsville, Alabama, a tornado, without warning, carved a
three-mile stretch of destruction, killing 17 people, injuring 463 and
leaving 1,000 homeless.  It hopped along a 25-mile path plowing
through a school, rural areas, a shopping mall and adjacent
apartments.  It tossed cars and trucks on Interstate 85.  It was one
of a series that touched down in seven states from the Deep South to
the Midwest.  Later, a tornado watch was issued for the Atlantic coast
and New England states.  This was Alabama's deadliest twister since
1975 when 22 people died in Birmingham.  Officials are requesting
federal disaster assistance.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891116-0191"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
 
Within days, a series of tornadoes and severe thunderstorms swept
through fourteens states and the District of Columbia causing death,
injury and destruction.  At least 27 people have died, more than 500
are injured and hundreds have been left homeless.  The most serious
damage occurred in Huntsville, Alabama where 17 people were killed,
463 injured and about 1,000 left homeless.  In Newburgh, New York,
about 60 miles north of New York City, a tree crashed through the roof
of an elementary school killing seven children and injuring eighteen.
Thousands of utility customers are without power and property damage
is in the millions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070190-0073"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
 
Tetsuya Theodore Fujita is an American professor of geophysical
science.  He is one of the world's foremost authorities on violent
storms.  He discovered that most tornadoes are actually six or seven
small twisters called suction vortices, rotating around the center of
a larger tornado.  He developed a 1 to 5 scale for measuring the
strength of tornadoes.  However, his best work may be on other air
movements called downbursts and microbursts.  It is believed these
phenomena have been the cause of 17 aircraft accidents in the past 15
years.  His work helped persuade the FAA to install new radars at
major airports.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d11"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900619-0006"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
  
1990 is fast becoming one of the worst years on record for tornadoes
and flooding across the middle and southern sections of the country.
One tornado in Kansas was the strongest since 1985.  Flooding in the
South and the Plains has been as destructive as the tornadoes.
Studies of tornadoes indicate they are concentrated in regions for
five or six year periods.  Parts of the Midwest, particularly Kansas
and Missouri, seem to be entering such a trend.  However, because
computers allow meteorologists to see more sources of data more
clearly, warning of impending storms is becoming more sophisticated
leading to fewer deaths.</SUM>
