<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092189-0123"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">  

On 19 September 1989, a French DC-10 aircraft with 171 passengers
aboard exploded and crashed after departing N'Djamena, Chad.  A
terrorist bomb was suspected as the cause.  There were no survivors.

Reasons for the bomb theory include: the wide area of the debris
field, and the sudden loss of contact with the aircraft by air
controllers; French officials reported the aircraft in good condition;
another French aircraft flying the same route was damaged by a bomb;
and France has been a recent recipient of terrorist threats.

The wife of the U.S. ambassador to Chad was among the victims.</SUM> 


<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0217"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

On 11 January 1989, authorities questioned an injured pilot of a
Boeing 737 that crashed on this date while en route from London to
Belfast.  The crash killed 44 people and injured 82.

No explanation was given as to why a functioning engine was shut down
while a malfunctioning one was allowed to operate.  Crosswiring of
warning systems may have been a contributing cause.  Flight recorders
indicate that the crew shut down the wrong engine.

In a related development, the FBI is investigating possible falsified
records at a factory which makes parts for the CFM56 engine, the type
on board the aircraft.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081489-0025"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

On 13 August 1989, a U.S. military helicopter finally located the
crash site of a plane with Congressman Mickey Leland (D-Texas) and 15
others aboard.  There were no survivors.  The plane had hit a mountain
peak in Ethiopia on 7 August in heavy weather.

Leland and his party were touring refugee camps along the
Ethiopian-Sudanese border to determine food aid requirements for the
poor.

The recovery of bodies is in progress.

Leland was noted for his compassion for the poor.  He represented a
black and Hispanic community in Houston.  He won his most recent
election with 96 percent of the vote.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880517-0226"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

A single-engined Cessna plane crashed on 17 May 1988 on the outskirts
of Albuquerque, killing all five people on board.  The plane from Salt
Lake City, was attempting to land at Coronado Airport in light rain
and gusty winds.

An eye witness, a 17-year-old student pilot, said that the pilot was
attempting to achieve level flight in gusty winds.  The plane went
nose-in to the ground and flipped over.  The witness said that there
was fuel everywhere and fear of a fire.  NTSB and FAA authorities were
en route to the site to conduct an investigation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0005"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

On 3 March 1991, a United Air Lines Boeing 737 with 25 passengers and
crew nosed into the ground a few miles south of Colorado Springs
airport killing all on board.

There was no immediate cause known for the crash but wind shear was
one possibility.  It comes at a time in which the travel industry is
in the doldrums from fears of terrorism, etc.

The National Weather Service in Colorado Springs issued a wind shear
warning two hours before the crash.  The last wind shear accident
occurred in 1985 in Dallas.  Resources have been directed to deal with
this threat.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081589-0043"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

A plane crash during a rain storm claimed the life of respected
Congressman Larkin Smith (R-Mississippi) on 13 August 1989.  He was
the second House member to die within a week.  Another plane with
Congressman Mickey Leland (D-Texas) aboard was finally located at its
crash site in Ethiopia also on 13 August.

Smith, a former sheriff and police chief, was returning home to
Gulfport. A team of investigators was en route to the site.

The plane, a Cessna 177, was built in 1973 and had a current
inspection certificate.  The pilot, who also died in the crash, had
recently undergone a physical examination.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA072089-0140"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

A disabled United Air Lines DC-10 crash-landed at Sioux City, Iowa
airport on 19 July 1989.  Casualties were 123 of 293 dead.

The plane's tail engine exploded.  There was a total hydrauylic
failure.  The right wing engine also failed.

Passengers described the heroic efforts of the captain to control the
aircraft during the landing.  The right wing hit the ground and the
plane began to break up and catch on fire.  Passengers expressed shock
at being alive.  The survival of 166 passengers was remarkable in such
a crash.

It was one of several recent crashes and incidents by United Air Lines
aircraft.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870818-0002"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

A Northwest Airlines MD-82 aircraft crashed on 16 August 1987 in
Detroit killing 154 people.  The plane was previously involved in two
other incidents of engine failure.

It was the second deadliest aircraft accident in U.S. history.  Flight
recorders have been recovered.  Engine failure is a likely cause.

The JT8D-200 series engine, the type aboard the MD-82, is of some
concern to safety officials because of the number of incidents
involving this engine.

There is pressure now for a complete review of air safety.  Between
1960 and 1985, there were 10 aircraft crashes by U.S. domestic
carriers resulting in 1348 deaths.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0089"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

A Pan American Boeing 747 aircraft crashed on 21 December 1988.  The
dead were 258 people on board the aircraft and 20 people on the ground
at Lockerbie, Scotland.

The plane had taken off from Heathrow Airport, London. The FAA and
Boeing officials did not believe that aircraft failure was the cause
One view was that the aircraft suffered an explosion because of the
scattering of wreckage.  One official believed that sabotage was the
most likely cause, one reason being the sudden loss of contact with
the plane.

Airline officials had previously received warnings and threats.

Several terrorist groups claimed responsibility.</SUM>
