<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="FT934-8748 FT933-2760 FT933-10881 FT922-3171 FT934-13350
FT934-10911 FT934-9116 FT933-5709 FT934-8628 FT932-5855 FT941-1750"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

The North American free trade agreement between the US, Canada and
Mexico faced strong opposition from labor, grassroots groups, and
billionaire Ross Perot's presidential campaign. Opponents argued NAFTA
would send US jobs to Mexico and harm the environment.

Hispanic business organizations backed NAFTA but civil rights groups
feared US Hispanic workers would suffer, and insisted on protective
agreements for worker rights and the environment.

The business community spent millions in support of NAFTA. Investors
believed NAFTA would benefit superior US productivity and
products. Rejection would increase protectionism and inflation and
slow world economic growth.

President Clinton supported NAFTA after reaching environmental and
labor-issue side agreements, like a North American Development Bank to
assist NAFTA-damaged communities. He chose strategically connected
William Daley to build NAFTA support in Congress and bought off
undecideds with promises of new projects in their districts.  Former
Presidents Carter, Bush and Ford spoke in NAFTA's support.  Public
opinion was anti-NAFTA in September 1993 but reversed after a debate
victory by Vice President Gore over Ross Perot. Four days before the
House vote the outcome was too close to call.

After NAFTA's approval, Central American and Caribbean governments
fearing a more competitive Mexico awaited word on Clinton's promised
Caribbean-basin market protections.</SUM>
