<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-3171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Weeks ago a North American free trade agreement between the US, Canada
and Mexico seemed assured, with support of Republicans and most
congressional Democrats. Now strong opposition comes from presidential
candidate Ross Perot and working class Hispanic Americans who say
NAFTA will cost jobs. White House polls show President Bush's support
for NAFTA is a winning issue. Trade lobbyists think Democrats will use
it as a weapon, citing his 1991 commitment to environmental issues and
labor.  Democratic frontrunner Clinton will likely deem NAFTA the
wrong kind of agreement.  The environment, farm and labor coalition
will not support NAFTA without environment or food safety
provisions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-5855"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
     
The US Hispanic community is deeply divided on NAFTA. Important US
Hispanic coalitions like the civil rights group La Raza and the
Southwest Voter Registration Project fear US Hispanics would bear most
of NAFTA's negative impact. Sectors of the US economy most vulnerable
to import penetration are those most dependent on recent immigration
for their labor. The groups are making stringent side agreements
protecting worker rights and the environment a condition of their
support, demanding retraining of displaced workers and proposing a
trilateral Development Bank to direct resources to negatively affected
regions. Hispanic business organizations enthusiastically back NAFTA
and fear side agreements could jeopardize it.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-10881"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
  
With a shoestring budget, NAFTA foes have worked for 3 years to win
over the American public. They have signed a Declaration of War
against NAFTA, written alternative menus featuring toxic-laden Mexican
produce for a Trade Representative dinner, driven caravans through
states showing films of Mexico's environmental degradation, and
financed an office for "anti-NAFTA czar" former Indiana congressman
Jim Jontz. NAFTA's business-community proponents are spending millions
to convince Congress to pass NAFTA, bypassing the voters. Both sides
are cranking up lobbying efforts for this week's conclusion of talks
over labor and environment side agreements, which the opposition calls
a fig leaf.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-5709"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
    
President Clinton chose William Daley, son of legendary Chicago
political boss Richard Daley, to head a task force to get NAFTA
ratified. Smooth-talking Daley has important connections in Washington
and long-standing ties with organized labor. He is experienced at the
back-room political arm-twisting required to sway moderate Democrats
in a divided Congress. Recent polls show 2/3 of Americans oppose
NAFTA.  Grassroots opposition fueled by labor groups is
growing. Clinton reserved his own support until environmental and
labor side agreements were reached. The agreement will unravel if it
is not ratified by Jan 1. The battle for congressional support will be
fierce.  </SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-2760"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Grassroots environmental organizations, helped by economic
sluggishness and regular corporate layoff announcements, have fanned
anti-NAFTA sentiment to its highest level yet.  They warn NAFTA will
undermine environmental protection work and deny it would create
200,000 jobs in the next 5 years. President Clinton insists global
marketplace realities must be faced. President Carter attacked Perot
as a rich demagogue, Bush praised Mexican President Salinas, and Ford
said immigrants would overrun the US without work at home. Government
agencies were instructed to boost NAFTA in public forums. House
Speaker Tom Foley says much of what people fear will happen more
quickly without NAFTA than with it.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-13350"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
  
As the November 17 House vote on NAFTA approaches, the White House is
summoning undecided congressmen, business leaders and journalists for
intimate briefings in order to sway their votes. To win the votes of 8
Hispanic congressmen, Clinton will soon announce support for a North
American Development Bank to fund projects in communities hit by job
losses resulting from NAFTA. Cabinet members are traveling to
congressional districts to publicize factories expected to gain jobs
under NAFTA. Clinton spoke at an exhibit of products likely to
benefit, while the AFL-CIO presented speakers who lost their jobs when
their employers moved to Mexico.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-9116"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
    
After Vice President Gore's debate victory over Ross Perot, a poll
found NAFTA support up from 34% to 57%. US NAFTA opponents believe
fear of job and investment losses to Mexico will outweigh any new
enthusiasm. A survey of executives of medium-sized companies in
Canada, Mexico and the US showed a majority supporting NAFTA. The
Mexican congress criticized Perot's claims -- that Mexicans were badly
treated, oppressed and mostly living in poverty while 34 families
owned half the country -- as ignorant, offensive, and without
foundation. The anti-NAFTA whip announced he had enough votes to
defeat NAFTA but wanted a safe margin.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8748"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
   
US investors believe passage of NAFTA will be good for the economy,
reasoning that the US, with its superior industrial productivity and
products, will reap the most economic benefits in a more open trading
environment. A NAFTA rejection would lead to greater protectionism and
inflation and slower world economic growth. Inflation is the biggest
concern because low inflation has kept bond yields low and boosted
shares to record highs. A reverse trend could undermine vulnerable
equity markets. Defeat would be bad for President Clinton, who has
invested political capital in getting NAFTA through Congress. The
outcome of the vote is too close to call.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-8628"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
  
Anti-NAFTA demonstrators in Virginia said NAFTA undermines the
constitution and judicial system by putting decision-making in the
hands of international panels.  Virginia's tax base would be a concern
as companies moved production to Mexico and placed downward pressure
on wages. Demonstrators published lists of business contributors to
pro-NAFTA congressmen, and said President Clinton was buying off
undecideds with promises of new projects in their districts. One
undecided congressman, a member of the armed services committee with
many military in his district, expected to be influenced by NAFTA's
foreign policy implications, but said if offered a decent project he
might find it tough to say no.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d44"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1750"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">
    
Central American and Caribbean governments await a US statement on
Caribbean basin market protection in the US and Canada, promised by
President Clinton in talks last year.  Regional leaders fear Mexico
could capture Caribbean-developed markets and investments could be
diverted to Mexico. Also, parity for a few exports would come at the
price of investment treaties, intellectual property and workers'
rights agreements, environmental legislation, democracy, etc. A de
facto extension of NAFTA is unlikely, given the opposition to the
original NAFTA. Some US congressmen propose putting all regional
exports on a par with Mexico's for three years while future trade
relationships are negotiated.</SUM>
