<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0006"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">         

Wildfires started by lightning, fireworks and vehicle exhaust pipes
were combated over the July 4 weekend in various parts of the country.
The areas most affected were: Utah's Zion National Park; Montana's
Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness Area and Custer National Forest;
Wyoming's Bridger-Teton and Shoshone National Forests, and Yellowstone
Park; California's Yosemite Park and Los Padres National Forest;
Michigan's Hiawatha National Forest; and various wildlands in Kentucky
and Tennessee.  No injuries or serious property damage were reported.
Forest Service policy is to allow wilderness fires to burn unless they
threaten rails or structures or are about to spread outside the
wilderness area.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0109"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Firefighters in various states battled holiday weekend fires, which
blackened more than 6,000 acres of forest and wilderness areas.  Those
areas most affected were: California's Stanislaus National Forest;
Utah's Zion National Park; Montana's Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness and
Custer National Forest; Wyoming's Shoshone National Forest and
Yellowstone Park; Michigan's Hiawatha National Park; and Arizona's
Tonto National Forest.  Forest Service policy allows wilderness fires
to burn unless they threaten trails or structures, or threaten to burn
outside the wilderness boundary.  Cooler temperatures and calmer wind
helped control fires in Montana.

Rain slowed or damped the fires in Wyoming's National Park and Forest
areas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880705-0018"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Rainfall helped firefighters control wildfires in Wyoming's Shoshone
National Forest and Yellowstone National Park, and in California's
Yosemite National Park over the weekend.  Four firefighting crews were
expected from Colorado, Utah and South Dakota to reinforce
firefighters in Wyoming.  At Yellowstone, firefighters reported the
fires 90 percent contained by Monday.  The cause of a fire in nearby
Stanislaus National Forest was a "bottle rocket".  A fire in
Michigan's Hiawatha National Forest was brought under control Monday.
The Fourth of July was no holiday for firefighters from national
forests in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Idaho and other states who were
shipped to Michigan.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880801-0195"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Forest officials for Missouri's Mark Twain Forest believe the problem
of arson is often rooted in some regional traditions.  A
psychologist's study found economic and even aesthetic reasons why
some people start forest fires.  The tradition stretches across the
southern United States.  Accordingly, in the springtime, people used
to burn the woods to allow grass to grow.  A policy of open grazing on
any open land was allowed in the Ozarks into the 1960s.  Subsistence
farmers claimed fire helped control ticks, snakes, disease, and
encroachment of trees on to grazing land.

Some people enjoyed the smell of smoke in the spring air.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880901-0052"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

The following is a brief look at forest fires in the Western states.
Alaska: 2.1 million acres are smoldering but the fires are not active;
Idaho: 17 major blazes are underway, mostly threatening in Star Valley
and Eagle Bar; Montana: One large fire is burning in the Scapegoat
Wilderness, and two in the Absaroka-Beartooth Wilderness; Oregon: the
biggest forest fire is the Tepee Butte fire in the Wallowa-Whitman
National Forest; Utah: fires are under control near Pineview
Reservoir; Wyoming: fires are burning around Yellowstone Park at North
Fork and Clover-Mist; and Huck and Mink Creek in Bridger-Teton
National Forest.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880923-0163"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Less than seven weeks after the worst fire ever recorded in
Yellowstone National Park, the Park's environmental researchers are
monitoring what they term amazing steps the forest is taking to renew
itself.  The research should play a major role in a new debate over
whether to reforest burnt areas or let nature take its course.
Critics of the "natural burn" policy say controlled burning, selective
logging, and reforestation are a better way to manage forests.  Park
researchers hope that the evidence being gathered will testify to the
forest's ability to renew itself as it has for the past 10,000
years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890708-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

So far this season, 31,000 brush and timber fires have been reported
in seven Western states and Alaska and Georgia.  1,111,000 acres have
burned so far compared to 765,000 acres last season.  In the West, the
fires were fought in Utah's Diamond Park and Vinta Canyon; Northern
California's Sierra foothills; Colorado's drought-stricken mountains
and eastern plains; Wyoming's Bridger-Teton National Forest; Arizona's
Mount Graham, Peloncillo and Rincon Mountains areas; and New Mexico's
Gila National Forest.  Four large fires burned in interior Alaska, one
burned in Georgia's Okeefeenokee Swamp, and another in north central
Washington.  Firefighters have contended with wind and high
temperatures.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881216-0017"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

A panel reporting to the secretaries of Agriculture and Interior
recommended a moratorium in the government's "let it burn" policy in
order for the Forest Service and National Park Service to refine fire
management plans.  The panel experts said there were environmental
benefits to letting parks and wilderness areas burn, but in some cases
the social and economic effects may be unacceptable. The report said:
fire management plans should conform to departmental policies,
employees should understand the policies, a common vocabulary should
be used, and there should be agreement between agencies beforehand of
what to do if fires move across administrative boundaries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA070189-0080"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Firefighters got the upper hand Friday on brush fires in the Cleveland
National Forest near Lake Elsinore and in the rugged terrain of the
Antelope Valley.  The Lake Elsinore fire appeared to be caused by
people near a roadside store across the Orange County line.
Firefighters along the Orange-Riverside County line are battling
lingering flames inside the rugged San Mateo Wilderness.  The Antelope
Valley fire was contained 100% but it claimed 2,250 acres along the
outskirts of Elizabeth Lake and Green Valley.  Six structures were
burned, including one home, and more than 300 firefighters battled the
blaze for three days.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d22"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890714-0129"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="G">      

Rain and higher humidity helped firefighters whip blazes in six
Western states.  A fire along New Mexico's Diamond Creek, southwest of
Albuquerque, forced the rescue of hundreds of endangered fish.  The
creek was contaminated by ash from the lightning-caused Divide fire.
In California, one fire was contained on the coastline near Big Sur,
while another at Camp Pendleton continued to burn.  Fires were also
contained in Colorado west of Forest Collins in the Roosevelt National
Forest, the Boulder Canyon, and the Mesa Verde National Monument; in
Arizona's Mongollon Rim area; in Nebraska's Pine Ridge area; and in
Wyoming's Bridger- Teton Park.</SUM>
