<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870123-0101"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">       

As President Reagan prepares his State of the Union address next week,
the Wall Street Journal offers advice as to what the focus should be
for his final years in office.

In his second inaugural speech Reagan promised to make welfare reform
a priority.  Additionally, the public is said to be exasperated with
the huge amounts spent each year on welfare.

The Domestic Council's plan would give latitude to the states to
experiment; however, Congress, beholden to the welfare lobby, may not
be as anxious as the governors.

The president needs to challenge Congress to respond to his
initiatives.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870227-0149"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

The nation's governors met this week to discuss welfare reform.  They
want to see the current income-maintenance system changed to a
job-support system requiring able-bodied recipients to work for
benefits. The goal: to move recipients into jobs and off the rolls.

Several states have launched similar systems; results are promising.

Meeting with Clinton, they found some areas of agreement.  However,
the governors' plan would increase welfare costs by two billion
dollars, which they view as an investment.  Congress and the
president, however, are unlikely to endorse a plan that would raise
the deficit.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871215-0109"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

In an editorial in the Wall Street Journal the merits of the Family
Welfare Reform Act of 1987 are questioned.  The bill is scheduled for
debate by the House today.

The Journal suggests the Act merely expands existing programs without
reducing overall welfare dependency.  It also points out that less
than 25% of the expenditure will go toward reform such as
welfare-to-work programs, and really amounts to an expansion of the
status-quo.

The editorial suggests welfare reform should: 1. shrink the deficit
2. reduce incentives to remain on welfare, and 3. make work the focus
of the system.

The House bill falls short of these goals.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880903-0092"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

President Reagan says he'll veto any welfare legislation that doesn't
have a work requirement.

Unemployment is down and the economy is expanding, but those caught in
the welfare trap are being left behind, Reagan adds.  He has asked the
states to come up with their own welfare plans, and says over half the
states have implemented or proposed such plans.

With Congress close to a decision on welfare reform, he says he'll
insist on work being part of the plan.

The House bill provides for training and education, child care and
health care provisions.  House Democrats say if work is required the
states should manage such provisions.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-11394"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Yesterday President Clinton told the National Governors' Association
that within 10 days he will name a task-force to reform welfare.

His measure will include job training for the unemployed with a
requirement for recipients to work for their check.

President Clinton said that "welfare should be a second chance, not a
way of life."

Since the recession started the number of welfare recipients has grown
by 30 percent.

The president's plan will include continued health coverage, child
care and earned income tax credits for working welfare recipients.

Many states have begun welfare reform programs and Mr. Clinton
encourages such experiments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-6011"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

The Financial Times says welfare is synonymous in American minds with
crime, fatherless children, urban decay and drug abuse.  They suggest
that Clinton's program of welfare reform subliminally suggests a war
on all those problems.

Welfare, however, has become a lower priority for the administration,
after deficit reduction and healthcare reform.

Many conservatives favor a time limit for AFDC: when the time is up
they must accept low-paid jobs or give up their children.

Some suggested a Roosevelt-like work plan: after two years recipients
would be given low- paying government jobs.

Clinton's "workfare" scheme might be more humane and effective.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-12800"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Members of the international Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development worry that increasing costs of welfare and social
programs are adding to the nations' budget deficits and state
borrowing.  As the populations age in the future, the situation will
likely worsen.

Some of the factors qt work are higher pension costs, more healthcare
benefits and increasing longevity.  Many nations have universal
healthcare coverage and high unemployment rates.

Some solutions suggested are: raising the retirement age, lowering
benefits, a flat-rate pension and increased contributions.

Combined with social changes - more one-parent families and the
decline of the extended family - increased geriatric services and
welfare will be necessary.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-11014"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

Two states, Wisconsin and Georgia, have received permission to reform
their welfare systems.

Beginning in 1995, two Wisconsin counties will cut off welfare
payments after two years, although families will continue to receive
food stamps and Medicare.

Georgia's plan would reduce payments to able-bodied recipients who
decline offers of work and refuse increases to families on long-term
welfare who have more children.

Vermont and Florida have proposed a plan to put time limits on welfare
benefits and await federal approval.

Mr. Clinton's welfare reform plan, a central theme of his campaign,
features a two-year limit; the plan has so far been delayed.</SUM>
