<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032589-0044"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  

The Exxon Valdez, a California-bound oil tanker, struck a reef and
spilled 8.4M gallons of crude in Alaska's Prince William Sound on 24
March.  A US Fish and Wildlife Service representative said the
987-foot tanker was spilling oil at the rate of 10,000 barrels an
hour. But a Coast Guard spokesman said that the spill had slowed to a
trickle by afternoon Friday and did not seem to be moving ashore.
Environmentalists feared that wildlife would be threatened, especially
if the oil reached shore, and were concerned about the slow pace of
the cleanup.  Alaskan Governor Cowper arrived in Valdez on Friday to
evaluate the spill.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0029"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
 
Calm waters of Prince William Sound stymied efforts to disperse the
largest oil spill in US history.  The spill of 11.3M gallons occurred
when the Exxon Valdez struck Bligh Reef 25 miles from Valdez, Alaska.
Exxon officials planned to pump oil remaining on the Valdez onto
another Exxon tanker.  A spill of this size in a complex environment
promises to be a cleanup nightmare.  The Valdez had been loaded at the
Alyeska Pipeline Service Co.  with crude from the Trans-Alaska
pipeline.  Alyeska must now operate at reduced rate and its capacity
would allow nine days of operation before it would shut down.  Valdez
relies on fishing, oil, and tourism.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0143"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
The biggest oil spill in US history created a slick seven miles long
and seven wide in Prince William Sound from 240,000 barrels of crude
from the Exxon Valdez.  The Golob Oil Pollution Bulletin called this a
major environmental catastrophe and that clean-up equipment at the
site was grossly inadequate.  Alaska has a plan for action within five
hours of a spill but it took hours longer and insufficient equipment
was employed initially.  A Greenpeace spokesman said the whole food
chain could be affected.  A Coast Guard spokesman said some
blood-alcohol tests were given to crew but no results yet available.
National Transportation Safety Board officials were expected on site
soon.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890326-0081"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
        
The Exxon Valdez was illegally piloted by its third mate, who didn't
have a proper pilot's license, when the vessel ran aground.  Exxon
said the captain, Joseph Hazelwood, was not on the bridge at the time
of the the accident, contrary to company policy.  The captain and two
crew members were relieved of duty and subpoenaed by the NSTB.  Two
supertankers remained anchored offshore by the closure of the Valdez
port.  Alaska's governor declared the pristine Prince William Sound a
disaster area.  The Coast Guard estimated the spill as covering 100
square miles.  Many fishermen expected minimal harvests and long term
damage to its reputation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032789-0038"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
An unqualified mate was piloting the Exxon Valdez when it crashed into
rocks resulting in the worst oil spill in US history.  The Long
Beach-bound tanker was actually involved in two separate accidents,
first hitting a jagged rock pinnacle a mile outside shipping lanes,
then after going two more miles, hit more underwater rocks.  Exxon did
not know if Captain Hazelwood took the wheel before the second
accident.  Mate Gregory Cousins did not have Coast Guard certification
to pilot through the Sound. The International Bird Rescue Center set
up a rehabilitation center and experts from the Hubbs Marine Research
Institute in San Diego were to arrive today.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890404-0260"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Exxon crews finished pumping the remaining crude from the Exxon
Valdez, preparing to refloat the vessel.  Exxon planned to pump air
into the hold to aid in refloating the vessel.  They said that the
oil-catching boom put around the ship after an 11 hour delay, could
have touched off an explosion of gases from the oil. The family of
fired Exxon Valdez captain, Joseph Hazelwood, said he wanted to
surrender but awaits advice from counsel.  The state told fishermen it
would not allow a herring season this year.  Ordinally, a harvest is
usually worth about $12M.  Sablefish and shrimp fisheries have also
been closed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040689-0056"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">  
 
Exxon salvage crews successfully refloated the stricken tanker Exxon
Valdez after nearly 1M barrels of oil were pumped to smaller tankers
and air was forced into the Valdez tanks.  Clean-up from the spill
continued as the oil slick was estimated to affect an area the size of
Delaware.  Alaska Governor Cowper said the coast Guard could better
handle the clean-up than Exxon.  James Hazelwood, captain of the
Valdez, who had been found to be legally drunk and was fired by Exxon,
surrendered to police in a Long Island suburb of New York City.
Released on $500,000 bail he may not waive extradition to
Alaska.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040789-0051"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">   
 
Alaska Gov Cowper threatened to close down the trans-Alaska pipeline
unless owners met measures for improved safety and clean-up, namely:
description of dedicated clean-up gear, names of 12 response teams
available 24 hours a day, installation of containment booms around
tankers in harbor, restrict tanker traffic to daylight, limit to
loading one tanker at a time until all equipment in place, and show
that adequate gear and supplies are available to handle another 10M
gallon spill.  Former Exxon Valdez captain Joseph Hazelwood left jail
in New York after a judge cut his bail from $500,000 to $25,000.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA043089-0197"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
A fresh oil sheen has seeped from the ruptured Exxon Valdez making a
complete clean-up impossible.  The vessel is now undergoing temporary
repairs 30 miles from the rupture site. The Alaskan Senate passed
bills to add to state's spill response fund, prevent companies from
deducting spill costs from oil production taxes, develop state
contingency plans, establish a spill response team, and create a
commission to investigate the Exxon Valdez spill.  It is unlikely that
the House would approve the bill before adjournment.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890501-0176"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
 
Exxon has a revised plan for cleaning 364 miles of Alaskan coastline
fouled by the nation's largest oil spill, but the plan is to end in
September and would require suspension of local environmental laws.
Sludge and tar from the spill fouled beaches of Katmai National Park
killing animals and birds and even threatening the huge brown bears.
The damage extended southwest of Valdez for some 500 miles.  Coast
Guard Admiral Yost would decide whether to approve the plan within a
week.  The oil industry blames the spill for increase in crude prices
and higher costs at the gas pumps.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890502-0205"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F"> 
 
Coast Guard Commandant Yost attacked Exxon's plan to clean up the
Alaskan oil spill.  Also, consumer activist Ralph Nader, other
environmentalists, and politicians expressed anger in a one day
"Boycott Exxon" campaign.  The cleanup is to be paid for by the oil
industry and could add $100-500M to Alaska's economy, more than
offsetting the loss to the fishing industry.  Thousands of dead birds
were spotted 300 miles from the spill site.  Since the Exxon Valdez
spill, gas prices have increased 10% nationally and as much as 25% in
the Northwest.  Nebraska's two senators have asked the US Attorney
General to investigate possible price gouging by the oil
industry.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012590-0174"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
   
Exxon increased its estimate of the 1989 costs of cleaning up the most
expensive environmental disaster in history to $2B and it could take
another $500M.  Exxon noted that these costs were the major reason for
their lower net income for the year, but analysts said that Exxon's
size would insulate it from serious long-term financial damage.
Exxon's stock has lagged behind that of major oil firms and Exxon
could suffer from continuing negative publicity from the Valdez spill
and the subsequent heating oil spill into a waterway between New York
and New Jersey.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900313-0191"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
    
From a helicopter, the Alaskan beach appears untouched by the worst
oil spill in US history but hundreds of gallons of oil are locked up
under the surface.  A year after the wreck of the Exxon Valdez, dead
birds no longer wash up onto the beach but thousands were killed
earlier.  Exxon notes that the spill did not wipe out any species and
that surviving animals can rebuild populations.  But the US Fish and
Wildlife Service says that could take 70 years. Joseph Hazelwood is on
trial for drunken driving of the vessel as captain.  Criminal
indictments have been issued against Exxon and they also face more
than 150 civil lawsuits.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900323-0036"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="F">
       
Chronology of the Exxon Valdez oil spill: March 24, the tanker runs
aground; March 30, Exxon fires Captain Joseph Hazelwood after
determining he was drunk; September 15, Exxon suspends beach clean up
for the winter claiming a job well done but Alaskan officials
disagree; January 22, Hazelwood goes on trial in Anchorage; February
27, a federal grand jury indicts Exxon and its subsidiary on five
criminal counts; March 22, the jury finds Hazelwood guilty of
negligent discharge of oil but innocent of more serious charges.</SUM>
