<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="WSJ911204-0162 SJMN91-06339016 SJMN91-06339224 SJMN91-06339168
WSJ910627-0102 SJMN91-06203128 SJMN91-06172056 WSJ890817-0069
SJMN91-06338157 WSJ910620-0075 SJMN91-06171095"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">    
 
John Sununu, White House Chief of Staff during the George H. W. Bush
administration, was born in Havana, Cuba, son of an immigrant Lebanese
trader and a Greek mother from El Salvador. He had an upper
middle-class upbringing in New York and went on to earn three degrees
from MIT. Sununu, reputed to have an IQ of 180, founded and ran
several engineering firms and served as a professor of physics at
Tufts University. First elected to the New Hampshire Assembly in 1972,
he went on ten years later to be elected governor, serving two terms
and playing a leading role in Bush's primary victory there in
1988. When Sununu became Bush's White House Chief of Staff his brusque
manner and combative style quickly won him many enemies among members
of congress, cabinet members, and White House staff. His principal
sources of support were the President's loyalty and the conservative
wing of the Republican Party.

Sununu created public relations problems for himself through his
apparent indifference to generally accepted ethical standards,
particularly in regard to use of government planes and automobiles for
private travel. Although President Bush belittled these as "appearance
problems," Sununu added to the public relations disaster by
proclaiming that he would not take advice from "self- styled experts"
on how he traveled and remarking, "You can't get here without
traveling. I know that's a very complicated concept for some." By June
of 1991 a poll showed that 41% of voters had a negative view of Sununu
compared to just 20% the previous October.

With a re-election campaign facing President Bush in the following
year, with the President's approval ratings down, and with economic
problems apparently being ignored by the administration, pressure
built among those alienated by Sununu to rid the White House of the
liability he represented. The President was reluctant to dismiss his
loyal supporter. Instead, President Bush's oldest son, George W.,
visited Sununu in December 1991 informing him how many important
figures he had alienated.  Sununu did not take the hint, but
vigorously set out to rally support within the conservative wing of
the Republican party. It was too late. It was reported that the
decisive factor in Sununu's fall was that the President's wife and son
had turned against him.  Sununu submitted a letter of resignation
defiantly asserting that he was being fired for doing what he was
hired to do.  </SUM>
