<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ890817-0069"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
  
John Sununu, President Bush's chief of staff, is a combative,
conservative Republican. Although his brusque style rubs some people
the wrong way the brainy former New Hampshire governor is now given
credit for acting as a detached broker in policy debates. This
represents a striking change from the administration's opening months
when many wondered if the chief of staff would survive. Many political
analysts believe Sununu has moderated his brash style, but he insists
that it is Washington that has changed. Nevertheless, some Democrats
and Republicans alike believe that Sununu with his combative style may
still be accumulating too many enemies for his own good.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06171095"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
   
After the controversy two months ago over White House Chief of Staff
John Sununu's use of government aircraft for private travel, President
Bush instituted new travel rules forbidding the practice. Now Sununu
has again created what the President calls an "appearance problem" by
using a government limousine to travel to New York on strictly
personal business. Replying to critics of the New York trip, Sununu
vowed he would not take advice from "self- styled experts" on how he
travels and explained that he took the car so as to be able to
communicate instantly with the White House in the interest of national
security.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910620-0075"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
  
White House Chief of Staff John Sununu has used five different
corporate jets to travel to Republican fund-raisers in the past six
weeks and the White House says he will continue to use such jets
rather than government planes for political travel. Meanwhile Sununu
created another, what President Bush calls, "appearance problem" by
using a government limousine for a private trip to a stamp auction in
New York. The President denied he was angry with Sununu and said his
job was safe, adding that there is a "piling-on syndrome" feeding the
publicity about Sununu's travel.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06172056"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
John Sununu, the abrasive White House Chief of Staff, is discovering
that the many people he has insulted or slighted are enjoying his
recent travails and asking how long he will last in his job. Sununu's
brusque style has alienated Republicans and Democrats alike. The
latest flap over his using a government limousine to go to a stamp
auction in New York raises no legal question, but makes one question,
his judgment. President Bush said that Sununu's job was safe but
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater made it clear that Bush
directed Sununu to make no more embarrassing trips.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910627-0102"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

White House Chief of Staff Sununu may find some comfort in a new poll
showing that of the voters surveyed, 80% had heard of the latest
charges of inappropriate use of government and corporate
transportation, but of those only 58% think that he should resign. On
the other hand, the poll shows that 41% of voters now have a negative
view of him compared to just 20% last October. Sununu has adopted a
low profile apparently thinking that he can ride out the storm, but
some administration aides and Republican strategists argue that he
should be pushed aside before Bush's re-election campaign gets into
full swing.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06203128"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
Embattled Chief of Staff John Sununu might consider the case of
another former Governor of New Hampshire who held the same White House
job. Sherman Adams was described as "laconic, abrupt, businesslike and
puritanically honest." But in the spring of 1958 it came to light that
Adams had accepted gifts from an unsavory New England industrialist
and had interceded with regulatory agencies on the industrialist's
behalf. When it became clear that Adams was becoming an issue that
could help the Democrats in the elections that fall, Eisenhower sent
Vice President Nixon and the Republican National Chairman to visit
Adams. In late September Adams resigned.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06338157"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

President Bush's son George informed White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu last Wednesday that Sununu had alienated members of the
cabinet, the White House Staff and the Republican community. The
message was meant to be taken as a suggestion that Sununu offer to
resign. Instead, Sununu took the message as a call to rally his
support among members of congress and the conservative wing of the
Republican Party to convince the President that he should remain at
his post. Officials said that the president himself met with Sununu
Sunday. The outcome of that session was unclear.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339016"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
White House Chief of Staff John Sununu resigned Tuesday saying he did
not want to be a "political burden" to President Bush during his 1992
re-election campaign. Bush's son, George, informed Sununu last
Wednesday that he was becoming a liability. The conversation was
reported in the press Tuesday and many political strategists saw the
leak as a public signal to Sununu that he should resign. Bush praised
Sununu saying, "He has taken a lot of hard shots that would have
landed on my chin." House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D- Mo,
said that Bush shouldn't expect a White House shake-up to reverse his
fortunes.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911204-0162"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

During a flight to Florida on Air Force One, President Bush
effectively forced the resignation of his feisty chief of staff, John
Sununu.  Sununu's removal may not solve the president's immediate
political problems as it could exacerbate criticism from the
right. Sununu's strong anti-abortion stand won him strong support
among social conservatives who distrusted Mr. Bush's roots in the
moderate wing of his party. But Sununu's heavy-handed lobbying in
congress and seeming disregard for its members' stature as elected
representatives had bruised congressional egos and his abrasive
operating style which had alienated longtime Bush allies would be a
liability in the forthcoming re-election campaign.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339224"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

As his final act, John Sununu, the man hired by George Bush to be his
political hatchet man, took a swipe at the boss insinuating that he
was fired for doing what he was hired to do.  Over the past three
years many have speculated that Bush was keeping his rude and
contentious chief of staff only out of loyalty to Sununu for helping
him win the 1988 New Hampshire primary. Sununu alienated Congress,
Cabinet members, House Republican and the press. But, most important,
the president's wife Barbara, and oldest son, George, turned on
Sununu. And so, finally, Bush invited Sununu to resign.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339168"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
John Sununu submitted his resignation in a five-page handwritten
letter that made it clear he felt betrayed. He was simply doing what
he was hired to do and his dismissal was not a matter of principle but
of ratings. His bullying tactics were fine as long as the opinion
polls did not go down. While Sununu's lack of political skill in
dealing with Washington was a factor, and while his fatal flaw may
have been in believing he was smarter than Bush, what finally cost him
his job was opposition of the president's wife, Barbara, and his
oldest son, George.  </SUM>
