<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
Child care arrangements remain unreliable despite public and private
investment in child- care systems.  A recent survey shows that most
working women report lost time from work due to insufficient child
care.  This problem cost employees about $3 billion dollars annually.

Working mothers are calling for high quality, affordable child care.
Licensed child care is good but expensive.  Non-licensed child care is
less expensive but of uncertain quality.  Nannies are a costly
alternative that some families are turning to.  Agencies charge from
$400 to $2500 to supply nannies.  It can be difficult to get a refund
on referral fees if a nanny does not meet the needs of the family.

To provide for a more stable workforce, corporations are addressing
the day-care problem.  Some companies are creating day-care centers
for their employees.  Small companies find these centers expensive but
good for business.  They sometimes accept children of non-employees to
offset operating expenses.

Many large corporations are pooling their resources to establish day
care facilities to be used by the employees of two or more firms.

Meanwhile the day-care centers themselves are providing more services
for working parents.  Some facilities provide their service around the
clock to accommodate diverse work schedules and life styles. Parents
and employees both benefit when there are a variety of choices for
effective day care.  
</SUM>

