<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
Child care arrangements remain unreliable despite public and private
investment in child- care systems.  A recent survey shows that most
working women report lost time from work due to insufficient child
care.  This problem cost employees about $3 billion dollars annually.

Working mothers are calling for high quality, affordable child care.
Licensed child care is good but expensive.  Non-licensed child care is
less expensive but of uncertain quality.  Nannies are a costly
alternative that some families use.  Agencies charge from $400 to
$2500 to supply nannies.  Never the less, the quality of some nannies
are less than ideal.  It can be difficult to get a refund on referral
fees for a bad nanny.

Another problem that workers face is that some companies do not extend
paid child-care leave to all employees equally.  In some cases men are
denied the same benefits that women receive.  Corporate attorneys are
warning employers to establish policies concerning child-care leave to
protect their firms.

A US Census Bureau survey highlights a child care problem that is
especially difficult for low income families.  The survey shows that
poor families spend an average of about 25% of their weekly income on
child care. Only 6% of the higher-income families' weekly earnings go
to child care.

In a move that will aid the proliferation of licensed day care
facilities, the Internal Revenue Service now allows a deduction for
any portion of a home that is used for regular day care.  No records
are required for specific hours of usage and a room does not have to
be used every business day to qualify.

To provide for a more stable workforce, corporations are addressing
the day-care problem.  Some companies are creating day-care centers
for their employees.  Small companies find these centers expensive but
good for business.  They say that hiring is easier, maternity leaves
are shorter and turnover has dropped by 50%.  To offset the cost,
small companies open up their centers to the public.

Many large corporations are joining together to stretch their
child-care dollars.  These firms are pooling their funds to establish
day care facilities that will be used by the employees of two or more
firms.

Meanwhile the day-care centers themselves are providing more services
for working parents.  Some facilities provide their service 24 hour
per-day to accommodate diverse work schedules and life styles.  This
service is beneficial to parents and makes the center more appealing.
Other child care centers such as Kinder Care Learning Centers, Inc.
recruit top executives such as Tull Gearreld to increase their profits
in an industry with tight profit margins.  
</SUM>

