<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870818-0002"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">     

A Northwest Airlines jet crashed Sunday in Detroit, killing at least
154 people.  Engine failure appeared to be the culprit, but FAA
officials would not speculate on the reasons for the crash saying it
was too early to draw firm conclusions. Following a summer of snafus,
the accident could be a catalyst for reassessing the Nation's
air-travel system.  All jetliners must be capable of take-off ascent,
even if one engine fails, if the aircraft is within prescribed weight
limits.  The plane had a large fuel load and was jammed with
passengers.  Congress is expected to act on aviation bills this
fall.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880517-0226"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A single-engine airplane crashed Tuesday on the outskirts of
Albuquerque while trying to land at nearby Coronado Airport.  All five
people aboard were killed.  Identities of the victims were not
immediately available.  A witness reported the plane was having
difficulty attempting a landing because of high winds and sprinkling
rain.  A gust of wind hit the plane as it was banking and caused it to
crash nose first into the ground.  Witnesses went to the crash site
but retreated when it appeared to plane might blow up.  Authorities
are in route to the crash site to conduct an investigation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0089"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A Pan Am Boeing 747 apparently exploded in the air 54 minutes after
takeoff from London's Heathrow Airport.  The wreckage scattered bodies
and debris over 10 miles of countryside and ravaged the village of
Lockerbie, Scotland.  All 259 people aboard the plan and 22 on the
ground were killed.  Sabotage is believed to be the most likely
explanation for the crash.  An anonymous caller to the AP office in
London claimed responsibility for the crash saying it was retaliation
by the "Guardians of the Islamic Revolution" for the downing of an
Iran Air Airbus by a US cruiser in July.</SUM>


<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA072089-0140"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A United Airlines DC-10 crashed a half-mile short of a runway
Wednesday while trying to make an emergency landing at Sioux Gateway
Airport in Iowa.  At least 123 of the 293 aboard were killed.  Experts
speculated that an explosion of the tail engine sent shards of metal
through the tail section destroying lines serving the hydraulic
systems.  This was the worst in a recent series of accidents and
mishaps involving United.  Last February, nine persons died when a
United jet's cargo door blew open over the Pacific.  In July, damage
from turbulence forced a United jet to land at Miami.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081489-0025"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The wreckage of a plane that crashed against a mountain in Ethiopia
Sunday with Texas Congressman Mickey Leland and 15 others aboard has
been located by US rescue and recovery teams.  Leland, Chairman of the
House Select Committee on Hunger, was making his sixth tour of refugee
camps.  He was accompanied by congressional staff members and
officials of the State Department, Agency for International
Development, and the Ethiopian government.  Indications are that the
passengers and crew died instantly.  President Bush and House Speaker
Thomas Foley highly praised Leland for his sense of compassion and
desire to help those in need.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081589-0043"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Congressman Larkin Smith (D-Miss) died in a light plane crash in
Mississippi Sunday.  Smith was the second House member to die in an
aviation accident this week.  Representative Mickey Leland (D-Tex) and
15 others were found dead Sunday after their plane crashed on an
Ethiopian mountainside.  Smith was a police chief and then a county
sheriff coordinating anti-drug efforts of federal, local, and state
agencies across five states.  Last November, he was elected to
represent Mississippi's 5th Congressional District, replacing Senator
Trent Lott (R-Miss).  He was developing a reputation on the House
Judiciary Committee as a zealous opponent of illegal drugs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092189-0123"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A French DC-10 jetliner with 171 people aboard blew up at high
altitude before crashing in a desert region of Niger.  There is
speculation that the jetliner was bombed by terrorists in retaliation
against France for sending a naval task force into Lebanese waters to
rescue French nationals in war-torn Lebanon.  Many perceived the
action as support for Maronite Christian forces against Syrian troops
and Muslim militia in Lebanon.  Several militant groups threatened
attacks against France in August.  The states of Iran and Libya are
under suspicion.  Seven Americans, including the wife of the US
Ambassador to Chad, were aboard the plane.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0217"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Authorities questioned the injured pilot of a Boeing 737 which crashed
short of the runway at East Midlands Airport in England, but revealed
no clues as to why the jet's undamaged right engine was shut down
while the other engine burned.  The government ordered checks of
engine monitoring systems, prompting speculation that a malfunctioning
alarm system could have misled the crew.  The plane's CFM56 engines
have parts manufactured by a General Electric Company, which may have
falsified its test records.  Boeing said aircraft that use the engine
are being inspected, but it does not imply a cause has been
identified.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0005"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

A United Airlines Boeing 737 jetliner crashed nose down near Colorado
Springs, CO, Municipal Airport, apparently killing all 25 persons
aboard.  There were no early indications on why the jet crashed.  One
focus is on whether there were unstable winds strong enough to cause
wind shear, a sudden, violent shift in wind direction that can smash
an airplane into the ground.  However, it is most dangerous when an
aircraft is at low altitudes such as shortly before landing or just
after takeoff.  When the jetliner crashed, it was a few miles from the
airport and thus at higher altitude.</SUM>
