<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870123-0101"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

President Reagan has identified welfare reform as a priority during
his final three years in office.

Several million families are involved in a cycle of poverty and
dependency.  Taxpayers have become impatient with the huge sums of
money (100 billion dollars per annum) that go to welfare with no
improvement in sight.

In response, the administration has agreed to give the states leeway
in devising their own plans.

There is a belief that the democrats in Congress are not serious about
reform.

With the support of the governors and the public, however, the
president could press the Congress to act.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870227-0149"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

There is a definite need for welfare reform but the problem is what to
do about it.  The nation's governors are trying to get the
U.S. administration to accept their plan. They want a more
job-oriented scheme to require welfare recipients to work.

There was a surprising amount of agreement at a recent meeting between
the president and the governors. One area of presidential disagreement
was on a minimum level of benefits.

The price of the governors' plan is 2 billion dollars, which taxpayers
would view with skepticism. The ultimate goal of any plan is to escape
welfare dependency.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871215-0109"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote shortly on a new 5.2
billion dollar welfare spending bill.  It is described as a reform
bill but in reality, it pays only lip service to welfare reform.

The bill's proponents view the bill as a necessary expenditure for
special education, training and work programs for welfare mothers to
encourage them to find jobs.

Both parties in the House of Representatives believe that
welfare-to-work programs are valuable; however, the number of
long-term welfare dependents has increased.  Valid welfare reform
should shrink the number of welfare dependents and enhance the work
ethic.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880903-0092"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

President Reagan has informed the Congress that he will veto any
welfare reform legislation that does not contain a work requirement.

Although unemployment remains at one of its lowest levels in years,
the president believes that there are still people caught in the
welfare trap.  He is urging the states to design their own plans for
getting people off of welfare.

Democrats favor a current House-passed bill that would make welfare
recipients who work better off than those who do not.  This bill
leaves the requirement that a recipient work to state and local
governments which administer the programs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-11394"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

President Clinton will form a task force shortly that will reform
welfare programs.  His reform includes expanded job training for the
unemployed and a requirement that people work for their welfare
checks.  Health coverage and other benefits would continue.

Welfare reformers fear that the Democratic emphasis on requiring
recipients to work or enroll in training might be canceled in favor of
more funding for current programs.  This would come at a time when
state revenues are limited due to recession and welfare rolls have
increased by 30 percent.

Many states have already begun their own welfare reform
programs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-6011"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

The pledge to "end welfare as we know it" and the two-year limit on
welfare checks were pre-election themes voiced by President Clinton.

Americans view welfare as an evil of society and there is considerable
pressure to reduce it.

Two congressional actions may reduce welfare rolls and shift people
off welfare by making work pay.

Many conservatives favor a time limit for welfare. They feel this will
change behavior.

Strict measures for timely welfare reduction may be too
harsh. Conversely, a more gradual and humane phase-in would take
years.

Perhaps the goals set in the first instance were too high.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-11014"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

The federal government has given approval to Georgia and Wisconsin to
implement pilot programs for welfare reform.  These programs may serve
as experiments for the revamping of the federal welfare system.

The Wisconsin plan includes the discontinuance of payments under the
program Aid to Families of Dependent Children after two years.

The Georgia plan reduces welfare payments to all able-bodied adults
who refuse to work and denies any increases to families on long-term
welfare who have more children.

The Clinton administration is considering a two-year limit as a
standard for welfare benefits in fulfilling its promise for welfare
reform.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d12"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-12800"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="E"> 

Capitalist economies of the Organization of Economic Cooperation And
Development (OECD) are faced with ever-increasing costs of welfare.

Social security payments have doubled, as have healthcare costs. The
costliest item is pensions. Solutions include reduced benefits,
raising the retirement age, discontinuing cost of living increases and
control of drug costs.

Demographic changes such as increases in life expectancy, and
one-parent families lead to increased welfare costs.

Unemployment is a particularly difficult problem.

OECD states may not be able to afford current welfare systems in the
future but merely provide a means of caring for those unable to care
for themselves.</SUM>
