<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900322-0200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

"Mad cow disease" (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or BSE) has killed
10,000 cattle, restricted the export market for British beef and
raised doubts about the safety of eating beef. Although the British
government insists that the incurable disease poses only a remote risk
to human health, scientists are not sure what causes the disease or
how it is transmitted. It has symptoms similar to scrapie, a disease
long observed in sheep, eating holes in the brains of its victims and
in its late stages causing an animal to stagger drunkenly.  There are
two human forms of spongiform encephalopathy: Creutzfeldt- Jakob
disease and kuru.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042290-0104"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">   
 
Scientists are uncertain of the cause or means of transmission of "Mad
cow disease" which has killed 10,000 cattle, adversely affecting the
market for British beef and raising fears about eating beef. The
British government has taken steps to stop the spread of the disease,
while compensating owners for animals destroyed, and assuring the
public that there is little chance of risk to human
health. Nevertheless, several countries have imposed an embargo on the
export of cattle from Britain. Two dozen cases of a human disease
related to Mad Cow disease were reported in Britain last year.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA060490-0083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">      
 
West Germany has joined France in a ban on British beef imports due to
concern over "mad cow disease" (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or
BSE). Despite assurances from the British government that the beef is
safe, some are skeptical and the price of British beef is
dropping. British officials believe that France and West Germany
imposed the bans to protect their domestic sales. European Community
commissioners have also protested the import ban. On May 11 it was
reported that a Siamese cat had died from a form of BSE and the press
went wild suggesting that if cats can get it people can too.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910107-0139"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">    
 
About 20,000 British cattle have been destroyed since 1986 in hopes of
eradicating bovine spongiform encephalopathy ( BSE or "mad cow"
disease). The similarity of human and animal forms of spongiform
encephalopathy has raised the question whether people catch it from
animals. An outbreak of the human form (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or
CJD) in a sheep-herding part of Slovakia where the ovine form
(scrapie) was present seemed to suggest a connection. Latest research,
however, seems to suggest that the disease is caused by an altered
protein (prion) in the brain and is probably spread by consumption of
tissue infected with expanding prion.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT921-9310"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

"Mad cow disease" (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or BSE), has been
found in Britain's sparsely scattered antelope population, including
elands, kuru and an Arabian oryx. In all, six species other than
cattle have been confirmed with the disease over the past three
years. There has also been a pronounced increase in the number of
sheep affected by the ovine form of the disease ("scrapie") with 894
cases diagnosed in 1991 compared to just 348 in 1990. Since 1989 the
condition has been confirmed in 23 cats and 29 goats. There is not
sufficient data to conclude how the disease is spread.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT931-3883"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">       
 
British government experts reassured the public yesterday that it is
safe to eat beef and that there is no scientific evidence of a causal
link between "mad cow" disease (bovine spongiform encephalopathy or
BSE) and human Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD). Anxiety had been
raised by news that a dairy farmer whose herd had a case of BSE in
1989 died last year of CJD. Both diseases are caused by particles of
infectious protein called prions. There has been no change in the
incidence of CJD, however, while the incidence of BSE has continued to
grow.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS3-41815"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
 
Scientists at London zoo have discovered that a strain of "mad cow
disease" affecting their small herd of spiral-horned antelopes (kudu)
can be transmitted much more easily than was thought. Of eight animals
born in the herd since 1987, five have contracted the disease. The
infective agent and its mode of transmission is unknown. Because of
the danger to other animals, the kudu herd has been isolated. Studies
are underway to ascertain if the agent causing the disease in kudu is
the same as that in cows. If so, the kudu must simply be more
susceptible to the disease than cattle.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FBIS4-45908"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Bovine Spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), already a multi-million pound
agricultural disaster, now is becoming a major political problem for
European governments. European health ministers will meet next week to
discuss a German proposal to ban British beef imports. A British
scientific journal has called for replacing the entire cattle
population with disease-free herds at an estimated cost of 30 billion
pounds. The infestation, thought to have spread through use of cattle
feed containing remains of infected sheep, has spread despite a ban on
use of such feed in 1988. 8004 cattle born since the ban have died
from the disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT933-8272"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">

Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) which has killed more than
100,000 animals in the UK is causing increased public concern. A
second dairy farmer has died of a related human brain disorder,
Creutzfeld-Jacob disease (CJD) causing some to maintain that BSE can
trigger CJD. BSE, CJD and scrapie, the ovine form of the disease, are
all caused by an abnormal form of protein, the prion, that converts
normal protein into its own abnormal form. BSE can be transmitted by
injecting or eating large amounts of infected tissue, but no human is
likely to be exposed to BSE in sufficient quantities to develop the
disease.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-1547"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
 
The German government yesterday announced a program at seven
universities and research institutes to study whether bovine
spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), popularly known as "mad cow disease,"
can be transmitted to humans possibly causing two related diseases
that very rarely affect humans: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and
Gerstmann Straussler syndrome. The risk of contracting the disease by
eating infected beef is considered minimal, but not non-existent. EU
health ministers will discuss contaminated British beef on March
30. Meanwhile 50 cases of BSE have been recorded in Switzerland and
two in Germany, one affecting a cow imported from Britain.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d05"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT941-575"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">
 
The European Commission will tell Germany today that it will take
legal action if Bonn attempts to unilaterally ban British beef for
fear of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) or "mad cow disease."
The German health minister has been the prime mover for action against
the UK. The commission points out that the EU sets veterinary rules
and that there is no scientific evidence linking BSE with
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease which affects humans. British officials
point out that they have taken strong measures to control BSE and that
the EU single market will be disrupted unless all members stick to the
scientific evidence.</SUM>
