<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA100789-0007"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">

The Second Amendment to the Constitution reads: "A well regulated
militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of
the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed."

The Second Amendment was originated by some of the states as
protection against the federal government.  The word "people" is used
collectively and refers to a political entity such as a state.  The
Supreme Court on several occasions in the past has ruled that this
amendment did not create a federally- protected right of individuals
to bear arms but rather, limited the power of the federal
government.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA073089-0118"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

One tactic used by gun lobbyists to counter any proposed legislation
for gun control is to mobilize its forces at the grass roots level
with petitions.  Another tactic is to launch verbal attacks such as
the one against Congressman DeConcini, a former opponent of gun
control measures who had changed his views.

Leading the gun lobby charge is the National Rifle Association.  It
continues to use its interpretation of the Second Amendment to the
Constitution as the cornerstone of its opposition.  Gun crimes,
however, continue to bring more public pressure against the NRA and
for gun control legislation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890722-0081"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Maine's constitution previously guaranteed the right to keep and bear
arms "for the common defense."  The amendment then read: "Every
citizen has the right to keep and bear arms and this right shall never
be questioned."  With this change, even felons could bear arms.

In 1989, a judge dismissed a charge of gun possession by a felon;
prosecutors argued that the amendment did not intend for felons to own
guns.  The judge's ruling stated that there was no connection between
the felon's previous conviction and his ownership of a firearm.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911212-0080"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Some members of congress argue that the Second Amendment's "..right to
bear arms." precludes any legislation designed to control arms.

Another view is that the Second Amendment provides a solid basis for
effective gun control legislation.  Justification for this point of
view is based on an interpretation of the Amendment's wording in the
light of the situation existing in 1792.

For purposes of gun control today, it would mean that Congress require
owners to register their firearms with the National Guard.  This would
provide the necessary information concerning owners as required by the
Brady Bill and other gun control legislation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911121-0136"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

The gun control movement in the U.S. sprouted from Roger B. Taney, the
racist chief justice of the U.S. and author of the Dred Scott decision
of 1857.

Dred Scott was a slave who sued for his freedom.  The case went to the
U.S.  Supreme Court.  Chief Justice Taney ruled against Scott, saying
that a slave was not a citizen and therefore of no standing in court.

The decision by Taney was eventually carried over into the context of
the Second Amendment due to the racial paranoia about black men with
guns.  This paranoia resulted in restrictions being placed on gun
ownership.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-5781"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

The U.S. Congress has finally passed the Brady Bill after a long
struggle.  The bill requires a five-day waiting period before the
purchase of a handgun.  The Brady Bill, the recent ban on the purchase
of assault weapons, and other pending bills are being viewed by some
anti-gun proponents as an indication that the tide has turned in favor
of gun control.

Opponents of gun control, led by the National Rifle Association and
citing their authority as the Second Amendment to the Constitution,
continue their opposition to all forms of gun control.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021090-0005"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

There appears to be a trend in the U.S. toward the implementation of
gun controls.  A recent media report indicates that 87 percent of gun
owners themselves favor a seven-day waiting period for handguns; three
quarters favor registration of semi-automatic weapons and half favor
registration of rifles and shotguns.

The Second Amendment to the Constitution, however, continues to be the
thorn in the side of any legal effort toward gun control.  Pro-gun
advocates accept the wording of the amendment at face value, that is,
a right to bear arms.  Gun control advocates attempt to put the
amendment in its 1792 context in defining its meaning.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910208-0130"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Some views expressed in "Letters to the Editor" of the Wall Street
Journal on the matter of gun control include the following:

a. Gun control measures are not effective and do not reduce crime.

b. Gun availability to the public reduces the likelihood of crime.

c. The lack of serious gun control legislation is due to the voting
pressure and resources of the pro-gun lobby.

d. The issue is not the control of firearms but rather the breakdown
of social institutions.

e. The thrust of the Second Amendment is its protection against
tyranny

f. More severe penalties for crimes is a more effective means than gun
control.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920114-0145"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

Writers of "Letters to the Editor" of the Wall Street Journal,
responding to Michael Gartner's article "Tell Me a Good Reason for
Handguns," take the author to task for ignoring key facts.

One writer comments that 99.6 percent of handguns are not involved in
crimes.  Clearly, says the writer, it is not gun control but crime
control and further, that criminals ignore gun control laws.  Another
writer believes that Gartner is intent on removing handguns from
society.

A third writer suggests that Gartner distorts the Second Amendment
when he claims that it refers to the arming of a militia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d27"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ920211-0036"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

The author of an article in the Wall Street Journal believes that
opponents of gun control write passionately but do not read well.

He forms this opinion from some "Letters to the Editor" he received in
response to his article recommending sensible gun control.  One letter
writer accuses him of wanting to remove all guns from American
citizens through total regulation.  The author vigorously denies
making any such statement.  Other writers accuse him of distorting the
Second Amendment on the "..right to keep and bear arms."

The author simply maintains that the Amendment is not a barrier to gun
control.</SUM>
