<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA110589-0082"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">       
 
Chile has the distinction of playing host to the largest earthquake
ever measured.  A San Francisco quake measuring 7.1 was comparable to
the earthquake that struck Santiago and central Chile in March 1985
killing 180 people and toppling some 70,000 homes.

Chile has about 2,270 miles of its coast along the earthquake fault
between the Nazca plate and the South American plate.

On May 21, 1960, an earthquake measuring 9.5 struck an area about 600
miles long in southern Chile.  About 5,000 people were killed in the
sparsely populated area, most of them when the coastline dropped.  A
tidal wave killed others.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891028-0022"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">     

A major earthquake registering 7.2 on the Richter scale shook the
Solomon Islands in the South Pacific today.  It was the largest
earthquake in the Solomons since a 7.4 quake on Nov. 5, 1978 and the
strongest in the world in the five months. An 8.3 quake hit the
Macquarie Islands south of Australia on May 23.

The preliminary reading of 7.2 is slightly stronger than the 7.1
magnitude earthquake that hit the San Francisco Bay area Oct. 17.

Major earthquakes in the Solomons usually don't cause much damage or
many casualties because the area is sparsely populated and not
extensively developed.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891017-0204"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">      

The major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay area Tuesday
occurred in a region seismologists targeted as having the highest
probability of a strong quake in Northern California.

The high probability is based on several factors, including length of
time since the last major earthquake struck the area in 1906, said
Clarence Allen, professor of Geology and Geophysics at the California
Institute of Technology.

According to the U.S. Geological Survey's Earthquake Center, there is
a higher probability of a major quake in the central California town
of Parkfield, where there is a 90 percent probability of a magnitude 6
earthquake by the year 2018.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901203-0166"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">       

Iben Browning, a climatologist, predicted that an earthquake would
occur along the New Madrid Fault on Monday. Schools were closed and
residents purchased earthquake emergency kits and others left town but
it was just another normal day.

Browning said there was a 50-50 chance for a major earthquake early,
this week along the fault, which stretches from Marked Tree, Ark.,
northeast through New Marid, Mo., to Cairo, Ill.  He believes tidal
forces can trigger earthquakes, a theory most scientists reject.

"There's just no way to predict an earthquake precisely," said Waverly
Person, chief of the U.S. Geological Survey's National Earthquake
Information Center.  "There are no two earthquakes alike."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890228-0019"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">      

The earthquake that killed 25,00 people in Armenia pushed last year's
earthquake-related death toll worldwide to the highest level since
1976 when a Chinese earthquake killed at least 10 times as many.  The
annual death toll for earthquakes is about 10,000.

There were 13,000 injured and more than a half-million were left
homeless in the Armenian earthquake that measured 6.8 on the Richter
scale.

The main shock was followed within minutes by a second, measuring 5.8
on the Richter scale.  An earthquake of 5.0 can cause considerable
damage, and the strength rises by 10 times for each whole number on
the scale.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT943-12341"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">      

More than 150 geophysical instruments in Japan's coastal Tokai region
tracks seismic activity, rock strain, crustal tilt, tidal movements
and ground water levels.  The data are telemetered to Tokyo where they
are monitored around the clock in the hope that experts there will
recognize unusual phenomena that may indicate an imminent earthquake.

Long after the rest of the world has abandoned hope of predicting
earthquakes, Japan continues to spend 2.5m dollars a year monitoring
the Tokai region and close to 100m dollars more on general earthquake
prediction research.

Skeptics say it is at best a misguided effort that wastes money and is
dangerously misleading to the public.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d57"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900918-0121"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="D">      

In Memphis and other areas up and down the Mississippi Valley people
are concerned about the prediction of an earthquake on 3 December
along the New Madrid fault. In some areas, thousands of people are
crowding into earthquake survival classes while entrepreneurs are
hawking quake insurance, and gas-line safety gadgets.

In Arkansas and Missouri, some schools and business have announced
plans to close in early December.

Everybody talks about the San Andreas Fault in California, but the
Midwest actually has had three of the most powerful earthquakes on
this continent.

In actuality, scientists say that there is no way to predict when an
earthquake will occur.</SUM>
