<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339335 LA031790-0064 AP881031-0063 SJMN91-06340155
LA031690-0174 SJMN91-06339143 AP901027-0086 AP901027-0048
AP891027-0115 AP890313-0102"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   
         ` On March 16, 1985, Terry Anderson, chief Middle East
Correspondent of the Associated Press was abducted on a street in
Beirut, Lebanon.  The Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the
kidnapping in their "continuing operations against America and its
agents."

Eighteen Westerners, including eight Americans, are thought to be
captives in Lebanon.  Anderson's capture brought an outpouring of
public support for the captives and put intense pressure on the Reagan
and Bush administrations to get them out.

In 1988, Anderson, 41, spends his fourth year in captivity.  Four days
after his birthday on October 27, the Islamic Jihad issues videotape
on which Anderson says he finds "it difficult to keep my hope and
courage high."

On March 16, 1989, Terry Anderson marked the fifth year as a hostage.
His sister, Peggy Say, and other family members and friends wrote
greetings to Mr. Anderson that are published in the French-language
newspapers An-Nahar and As-Safir.  They published the original English
text so that Anderson would be able to read them if his kidnapers
allowed him to.

The birthplace of Terry Anderson marked the hostage's 43rd birthday
Saturday with a flag raising, a gun salute and two renditions of
"Happy Birthday."

As Terry Anderson began his sixth year as a hostage in 1990, his
four-year-old daughter, Sulome, pleaded for the father she loves but
who she has never met to be released.

That same year, his family, friends and colleagues marked the somber
anniversary with commemorations and prayers in cities around the
world. In a solemn ceremony held in Lafayette Park, located across the
street from the White House, family, friends and colleagues of
Anderson gathered to mark the fifth anniversary of his capture.

But on December 4, 1991, after being held in Lebanese prisons for
nearly seven years, Anderson "the longest-held of the Western hostages
in Lebanon" was released, bringing almost to a close a chapter of
Middle East history that brought successive U.S.  administrations to
frustrated impotence before a shadowy group of radical Muslims.

At a press conference in Damascus, Syria, held the day after his
release, the 44-year-old journalist said his companions sustained him
in his long ordeal in captivity, his religious faith and his
"stubbornness."

"The causes of this troubled episode are complex and difficult,"
Anderson said in a statement.  "It is these causes which must be
redressed and eliminated.  The holding of innocent people by anyone
solves nothing."  </SUM>
