<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881031-0063"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

On March 16, 1985, Terry Anderson, chief Middle East Correspondent of
the Associated Press was abducted in Beirut, Lebanon.  The Islamic
Jihad claimed responsibility for the kidnapping in their "continuing
operations against America and its agents."

On November 8, 1985, Anderson writes an open letter to President
Reagan and his family.

Anderson begins his fourth year in captivity on March 16, 1988.  He
turned 41 on October 27.  Four days later, the Islamic Jihad issues
videotape to mark his birthday.  On the tape Anderson said he finds
"it difficult to keep my hope and courage high." </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890313-0102"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  
  
On March 16, 1989, Terry Anderson entered his fifth year of captivity
as a hostage in Lebanon, according to Anne Nelson, executive director
of the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists.  Ms. Nelson
read her statement at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C.,
where Vice President Dan Quayle was scheduled to make a speech.

"We call on President Bush and Vice President Quayle to use every
possible means to bring Terry Anderson and the other hostages home,"
Ms. Nelson said.

The International Federation of Journalists said it would place
advertisements in Beirut newspapers to urge the release of all
hostages. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891027-0115"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">    

Terry Anderson marked the fifth year as a hostage today.  His sister,
Peggy Say, and other family members and friends wrote greetings to
Mr. Anderson that were published in English by the French-language
newspapers An-Nahar and As-Safir.

Police say Lebanese authorities have no information on the whereabouts
of Mr. Anderson and 15 other Western hostages in Lebanon.

Four day ago, Mr. Anderson's captors, the Islamic Jihad, made its
first statement in a year, offering to trade Anderson and another
hostage, Tom Sutherland, for their comrades jailed in Kuwait.

A copy of the statement was delivered to a western news agency in
Beirut and included a photograph of Anderson. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA031690-0174"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

As Terry Anderson began his sixth year as a hostage today, his
four-year-old daughter, Sulome, pleaded for the father she loves but
who she has never met to be released.

His family, friends and colleagues marked the somber anniversary with
commemorations and prayers in Washington, New York, and Cyprus.  In
Paris, former hostages chained themselves to a tree to protest
Anderson's captivity.  President George Bush vowed to continue to work
for the hostages' release.

Anderson is the longest-held American hostage in Lebanon.  Eighteen
Westerners, including eight Americans, are thought to be captives
there. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA031790-0064"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

In a solemn ceremony held Friday in Lafayette Park, located across the
street from the White House, family, friends and colleagues of Terry
A. Anderson gathered to mark the fifth anniversary of the AP
Correspondent's capture by Islamic fundamentalists in Beirut.

The gathering brought together the families of seven other Americans
who were kidnapped after Anderson and are still held in the Lebanon
capital.  There were songs, prayers and remembrances during the event.

There was no evidence that the hostages would be released any time
soon despite an announcement two weeks earlier by Iranian President
Hashemi Rafsanjani who said he saw the hostage ordeal "moving toward a
solution."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06340155"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

A nearly seven-year-long journey through Beirut's heart of darkness
ended Wednesday for Terry Anderson, the longest-held of the Western
hostages in Lebanon, bringing almost to a close a chapter of Middle
East history that brought successive U.S. administrations to
frustrated impotence before a shadowy group of radical Muslims.

Anderson arrived in Germany early today and was reunited with the
sister who campaigned tirelessly for his release.

At a press conference in Damascus, Syria, held Wednesday, the
44-year-old journalist said his companions sustained him in his long
ordeal in captivity, his religious faith and his "stubbornness."
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339335"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Terry Anderson, the last American hostage in Lebanon, walked free
today of his pro- Iranian Shiite Muslim kidnappers.  His released
ended a brutal saga that kept 15 Americans in chains, left three dead
and bedeviled two U.S. presidencies.

A flurry of contradictory reports early in the day about Anderson's
whereabouts mirrored the agonizing cycle of raised and dashed hopes
for release from his 6.5-year ordeal.

Anderson's capture brought an outpouring of public support for the
captives and put intense pressure on the Reagan and Bush
administrations to get them out.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06339143"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar said American
hostage Terry Anderson had been freed today by his Shiite Muslim
captors and was safely in Syrian hands. Earlier in the day, it was not
clear where Anderson was, despite reports from Arab and U.S. officials
that he was released and turned over to the Syrians.

Heavy snow delayed Anderson's transfer from Beirut to Damascus, which
caused the confusion about Anderson's whereabouts.

"The causes of this troubled episode are complex and difficult,"
Anderson said in a statement.  "It is these causes which must be
redressed and eliminated.  The holding of innocent people by anyone
solves nothing."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901027-0086"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

Lebanese newspapers published birthday letters to American journalist
Terry Anderson on Saturday.  One newspaper reported that fellow
hostage Terry Waite will be freed soon.

Seven newspapers printed birthday greetings to Anderson from his
sister, Peggy Say, his youngest daughter, Sulome, and Madeleine,
Sulome's mother.  They published the original English text so that
Anderson, who did not know Arabic when he was kidnapped, would be able
to read them if his kidnapers allowed him to.

The newspaper, ad-Diyar, meanwhile, said British hostage Terry Waite
would be freed either "by the end of this month or within the first
half of the coming November, at the latest."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901027-0048"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D"> 

The birthplace of Terry Anderson marked the hostage's 43rd birthday
Saturday with a flag raising, a gun salute and two renditions of
"Happy Birthday."

About 40 people, including 12 of Anderson's cousins turned out at City
Hall for the gun salute and flag ceremony, then walked to a park to
join 500 others.

Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press,
was abducted by Muslim extremists in Beirut on March 6, 1985.  He is
the longest-held of the 13 Western hostages in Lebanon. Anderson was
born in Lorain, Ohio, and grew up in Batavia, N.Y., where supporters
decided against cake and signing to mark his birthday because of the
crisis in the Persian Gulf.  </SUM>
