<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
Democratictic Presidential hopefuls were late in starting their
campaigns and developing issues.  Governor Cuomo, most prominent,
never entered the running.  Senators Harkin, Gore, Rockefeller,
Kerrey, Governors Wilder and Clinton, and Jesse Jackson were considered
the other aspirants.  Gore was an early dropout.  The rest moved
gingerly in the face of President Bush's high ratings from the Gulf
War.  A Democratic moderate was believed to have the best chance to
make inroads in the Republican stronghold in the Sun Belt and West if
nominated.  Clinton appeared to be that moderate, and he began
emerging from the pack after a Florida Democratic straw vote and NBC
debate in December.  But, the hopefuls still had not assembled
campaign staffs nor developed issues.

Democrats were never able to make a successful issue of the Reagan
deficits, but with the deficit even greater in 1992, they hoped to
paint Bush as unable to deal with the deficit because of a "Cold War"
mentality. Democrats began campaigning for middle-class tax cuts and
savings, and investmate spending on health, education, and
infrastructure. With the economy becoming the major issue and Bush's
standing in the polls falling, Republican strategists conceded that he
was in trouble.
</SUM>



