<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ910708-0056 WSJ911023-0126
WSJ911216-0006 WSJ920121-0006 WSJ910822-0095 WSJ911126-0106
WSJ920106-0150 WSJ911018-0140 WSJ911212-0003 WSJ920107-0001>
By summer 1991, no prominant Democrats had become active in Iowa or
New Hampshire, the states with early caucuses or primaries.  High
approval ratings for President Bush after the Gulf War have kept
Democrats out of the race, although some visit Democratic fund
raisers.  Governor Cuomo of New York is the focus of most speculation.
Other Democrats mentioned are Jesse Jackson, Senators Gore, Harkin,
and Rockefeller; and Governors Clinton and Wilder.

The first dropout from the Democratic field is Senator Al Gore, who
did so for family reasons.  Governor Cuomo, despite New York financial
woes and identification as a Northern Liberal remains the most
promising candidate.  Of the remaining possibles, Governor Clinton, a
successful governor and telegenic campaigner may emerge.  Clinton may
be the Moderate alternative.  Democratic moderates have not fared well
in the nominating process, controlled by Party Liberals.  The
Moderates of 1988, Senators Glenn, Hollings, and Gore and Governor
Babbitt failed to garner liberal support.  The Liberals, former Vice
President Mondale and Governor Dukakis, who became moderates weren't
credible in the Republican stronghold of the Sun Belt and West.
Moderates may do well by questioning past Democratic Liberal
positions.

Most of the Democratic hopefuls claim "outsider" status but all head
inside the Beltway looking for money.  Governor Cuomo is believed to
have the greatest fund raising potential, but President Bush exceeds
all Democrats in raising money.

By Fall, 1991, Democratic hopefuls had not assembled campaign teams or
established identifiable issues.  None has emerged from the pack and
President Bush continues to lead in the polls.

A December convention of Florida Democrats featured a non-binding
straw vote, followed by a debate by candidates on NBC, attracted the
six declared candidates.  With Governor Cuomo still undecided about
the race, Governor Clinton, who won a majority of the straw votes, is
emerging as the leader.

Democrats had never been able to deal with the Reagan deficits, but
the deficit is greater than ever in 1992, and they are now stressing
middle-class tax cuts savings, and investmate spending on health,
education, and the nation's infrastructure.  The economy is becoming
the over-riding issue.  President Bush's dwindling ratings from their
Gulf War high suggest to the Democrats that Bush is in trouble because
of the economy.
</SUM>

