<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06324032 AP891222-0128 WSJ880701-0160 WSJ870611-0085
LA111489-0066 SJMN91-06288193 AP881228-0009 WSJ880520-0126
AP881022-0011 AP900207-0041 AP880711-0197"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">     
   
The literal meaning of polygraph is "many writings". In a polygraph
test a subject is asked questions while monitors attached to the
subject's body measure physical responses, and little pens attached to
the monitors record the physical responses on a graph. Changes in
blood pressure, and sweating and breathing patterns indicate if the
subject is lying. Those who favor polygraph use say that that it is a
valid detection devices. Critics say it is tantamount to witchcraft,
and provides false results while invading one's privacy.

Polygraph examiners, criminologists, attorneys and police officers
support polygraph use. Critics include psychologists, labor unions and
civil liberty advocates. The American Medical Association and the
Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, seemingly unbiased
observers, have said that polygraph results are not valid 50 percent
of the time.  Most courts do not allow polygraph testimony into trial
proceedings. A professor of neurobiology is working on a lie detector
that will measure brainwaves. He says that it will be able to identify
guilt in 90 percent of the cases, and that it will falsely accuse no
one.

Polygraphs were used in the private sector through 1987. The
Congressional Office of Technical Assessment estimated that two
million polygraph tests were conducted during 1987, 90 percent of them
by private employers. In December 1988 the Labor Department
promulgated new regulations based on a law passed six months earlier
that outlawed about 80 percent of the testing being done by private
employers. Employers could no longer give polygraph tests to
prospective employees, and those already on the payroll could no
longer be subjected to random testing. The law applied to managers and
executives as well as to low-level workers and this particularly
concerned brokerage firms and banks. A very few businesses of a
certain type were exempt. The law had the greatest impact on the 28
states that had no statutes restricting or banning the polygraph.  The
1988 law does not apply to state and local public safety
organizations, nor does it apply to sensitive federal agencies and
their contractors.

Anita Hill took and passed a polygraph test at the time of the
Clarence Thomas confirmation hearing. The results were not admitted
into the record, but it was big news at the time. Then, and at other
times when the public interest in polygraphs is aroused, advocates,
critics and almost anyone having an opinion speaks out.  </SUM>
