<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP870611-0085"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The House Labor Committee today approved a bill that would prohibit
private employers from using lie detectors to test workers. The bill
was bitterly opposed by companies in service industries. Unions have
pushed hard for the bill, claiming polygraphs are unreliable and an
invasion of one's privacy. The bill was approved only after a number
of limiting amendments were rejected. One amendment was accepted. It
would allow written and oral testing without the use of a
polygraph. The use of polygraphs, which accounts for only two percent
of their overall use, continues.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880520-0126"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

The Defense Facility Administration Agency hires Japanese workers at
United States bases, and acts as liaison between the Japanese
government and the United States military. Since September 1987 the
Navy has been telling employees that they would be required to take
polygraph tests before getting "limited access authorization". Last
month the Navy explained the requirement, and the workers are now
protesting it as an invasion of their privacy. The Navy is threatening
to transfer those who refuse the polygraph, and the Japanese Garrison
Forces Union that represents the workers, say they will mount a
nation-wide protest.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880701-0160"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">    
 
The Labor Department regulations banning the use of polygraph testing
will take effect in December. Critics of polygraph testing who claim
it is unreliable and demeaning are pleased, but most employers and the
companies that administer tests say that security will
suffer. Brokerage firms and banks have been among the most vocal
critics of the bill.  They have made wide use of polygraphs, and the
use has not been confined to low-level workers. Anyone, including
managers and executives, with access to negotiable instruments,
currency or securities, as well as confidential information, has been
tested.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880711-0197"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

The American Medical Association and the Congressional Office of
Technology Assessment have said that polygraphs give a false report as
often as 50 percent of the time. A professor of psychology and
neurobiology is developing a lie detector that measures brain waves,
rather than bodily functions, as do the polygraphs now in use. He
claims that it will pick up 70 to 90 percent of those lying, and will
falsely accuse no one.  The developer also said that the new detector
will be on the market in four years, and it will cost ten times as
much as the polygraph machines now in use.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881022-0011"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   
  
In June President Reagan signed a law banning about 85 percent of the
current use of polygraphs. Yesterday the Labor Department issued
regulations implementing the law.  About seven million private
employers will no longer be allowed to require job seekers or those on
the payroll to take a polygraph test, under penalty of a $10,000
fine. The employers must post signs summarizing the prohibitions and
exceptions.  Companies providing security services are exempt, as are
drug companies for those actually handling drugs. Polygraphs can still
be used to investigate specific occurrences of theft, embezzlement and
sabotage.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881228-0009"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">  

A law took effect yesterday that makes it illegal for most employers
to use the controversial polygraph for pre-employment screening, or
against workers already on the payroll. It is expected that the law
will ban 80 percent of the two million polygraphs administered
annually. The law will have its greatest impact in those states that
have no laws banning or restricting polygraph use. Firms providing
armored cars, security alarms and security guards are exempt, as are
companies that manufacture and dispense controlled substances. The law
does not apply to local, state and federal governments, and to firms
doing sensitive work for the government </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA111489-0066"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

A California State Court of Appeals ruled on Monday that cities and
counties could require applicants for jobs as police officers to
submit to polygraph testing. In 1986 the State Supreme Court held that
any involuntary polygraph testing of state employees was
unconstitutional, but the court's ruling did not settle the issue as
regards public safety jobs. In the case at hand, a man who had taken
disability retirement sought reinstatement but was denied unless he
would submit to polygraph testing. He refused, saying that there were
less intrusive ways to screen applicants, but the court ruled that
public safety outweighed his argument.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891222-0128"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Last week the Massachusetts Supreme Court banned lie detector tests
from use in criminal trials. Massachusetts had been one of the last
states that allowed defendants to use polygraph results to support an
alibi. Many states allow polygraph evidence if the prosecution and the
defense so agree. The Massachusetts court said that experts agreed
that there was a concern as to their accuracy, and cited studies that
showed accuracy rates varying from 50 to 95 percent. Last year a
federal law severely restricted the use of polygraphs in the private
sector. Companies that make the polygraph instruments were hit hard by
that law.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900207-0041"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">   
 
An employee of the security consulting firm hired by lawyers
representing Pan American's insurance carriers gave polygraph tests to
three Pan American baggage handlers in Frankfurt, Germany. Families of
the victims killed in the 1988 bombing of a Pan American flight over
Scotland have a 300 million dollar law suit against Pan
American. Polygraph results are not admissible in court, but polygraph
results can be used to provide new leads in the case. The man who
administered the polygraph tests in Germany was served a subpoena on
his return to the United States, and testified before a federal grand
jury last week.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06288193"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C"> 

Professor Anita Hill, who accused Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment
and so testified during the confirmation hearings, took a lie detector
test Sunday. Because her testimony had been challenged, she asked for
a polygraph test and according to the man who administered the tests,
she answered all questions honestly. The Chairman of the Committee
refused to allow the polygraph results to be placed into the record,
saying that courts do not accept polygraph evidence and that the
testing was done outside committee control. The man who gave the test
was a recognized expert but on an earlier occasion he had been accused
of improperly administering a test.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06324032"
SELECTOR="C"
SUMMARIZER="C">

In a polygraph test monitors that are attached to the subject's body
measure physical responses, and little pens attached to the monitors
record the responses on a graph. The literal meaning of polygraph is
"many writings". Those who favor polygraphs usage say that when people
lie anxiety and fear of being caught cause involuntary changes in
blood pressure and the way they breath and sweat. Critics say they
have little credibility and that it is wrong to equate fear and
distress with guilt. The public pays attention to polygraphs when a
famous person takes one, usually when it is one person's word against
that of another.  </SUM>
