<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06071022"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Heavy rains in California have worsened the threat of forest fires
this summer because they stimulate the growth of grasses which then
turn paper dry, helping to spread fires through trees and brush
weakened by five years of drought and by invasive insects.  The area
at risk is about a third of the US mainland, but the threat is most
extreme in California.  The severity of the threat and a lack of
equipment has prompted an aggressive program by authorities: putting
out the smallest wildfires before they spread, deploying firefighters
to where lightning storms are forecast, and clearing areas by setting
controlled fires.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012090-0090"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The city of Santa Barbara, California has introduced the idea of
fire-resistant garden landscaping--firescaping--to help homeowners
improve the chances of their property surviving brush fires.  The
garden is landscaped into four plant zones with the most flammable in
Zone 4, farthest from the house.  Zone 3 plants have low profile and
slow- burning characteristics.  Zone 2 features highly fire-retardant
succulents, acting as a greenbelt zone of maximum protection.  Zone 1,
closest to the residence, is a small area of plants that pose little
risk of burning.  Xeriscaping, landscaping with drought-tolerant
native plants, is also becoming commonplace.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06301029"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Officials in California's San Francisco Bay area have identified 10
local areas that seem to have the greatest potential for a firestorm.
Collectively, there are many community problems that cause
firefighters great concern: a preponderance of wood homes; shake
roofs; winding, steep or narrow roads; dense vegetation; mix of dense
homes and dry forest; weak bridges; few fire stations; longer fire
alarm response times; limited or uncertain water supply; gridlock from
fleeing residents; failure of residents to comply with fire codes.
Firefighters complain overall that moving into wooded seclusion and
natural beauty exacts a cost in fire protection.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06142126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Because of a five-year drought and rains that nurtured grass now
turning dry, California is gearing up for a dangerous wildfire season.
Firefighters are most concerned about certain rural areas.  Residents
have been advised to take special precautions; notably, clearing a
30-foot defensible space of dry grass and brush around the house;
removing all pine needles and leaves from roofs, eaves and gutters;
trimming tree limbs within 10 feet of the chimney and all limbs
hanging over the house or garage; treating wood shingle roofs with
fire retardant; making sure of adequate access for firefighters;
ensuring that neighborhood streets are clearly identified.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051590-0065"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Prolonged drought, bark beetles and a rare fungus are drying out and
killing brush and trees that surround many Southern California
neighborhoods, creating the potential for one of the worst wildfire
seasons in decades.  Most vulnerable in the 1990 season are the
chaparral-covered foothills and mountain canyon slopes beside densely
developed residential districts of Los Angeles and its suburbs.  The
area's average rainfall is 14.93 inches.  Only 6.15 inches have fallen
this year.  The dead and drying brush forms a highly volatile fuel
source.  Residents should clear tall grass, brush, trash, and firewood
at least 30 feet from any building.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081490-0030"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Two new studies show the men and women who battle wildfires face an
unseen hazard -- the effects from poisonous gasses and soot in
wildfire smoke.  Among the culprits are carbon monoxide (impairs
judgement), microscopic carbon particles (lodges in the lungs),
aldehydes (irritates air passages), and hydrocarbon-based substances
(gene damage and cancer).  Wildfire smoke also may accelerate aging,
prompt fatal heart attacks, and trigger respiratory diseases
(bronchitis or asthma).  Overly heavy gear and inadequate filters are
major problems.  Developing protection has received little attention.
Researchers have asked Congress to fund a $13.4 million study on
health threat and respiratory protection.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890805-0126"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

At the Boise Interagency Fire Center in Idaho, strategists and
quartermasters direct the nation's wildfire battles.  Specialists in
the logistics center marshal resources from around the nation.  In the
logistics room, the intelligence division keeps track of fires around
the country.  Another unit finds the crews and equipment to attack the
flames.  A big chalkboard plots the fires as they eat up the fuel.
Magnets resembling aircraft dot a map of the country giving the type
of equipment available.  Requests are for airplanes, helicopters, axes
and shovels, portable marine pumps, hoses, fresh fruit, disposable
sleeping bags, soft drinks, and manpower.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890801-0025"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Fire has charred more than 1.3 million acres of forest and rangeland
since January in the contiguous United States, compared to 2.1 million
acres by this time last year.  The fire season is just starting to
gear up.  Nearly 10,000 firefighters in five Western states are
battling hundreds of blazes, most sparked by lightning.  Fire is a
natural part of Western forest and rangeland.  Some years are worse
than others.  Last year's combination of heat and drought caused 6
million acres to burn in the West and Alaska, making 1988 the worst
fire season in 30 years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0227"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

For two months last summer, residents of the northeastern corner area
of Yellowstone National Park were threatened to be burned out by
forest fires.  Eventually, millions of dollars, thousands of
man-hours, and an early autumn snowfall saved the area.  The
unprecedented fire season burned nearly 1.5 million acres in the
greater Yellowstone ecosystem, including 705,000 acres within the
National Park, causing residents to worry about what is happening
beneath the snow this winter.  Reportedly, some wildfires have buried
themselves in roots of trees and grasses and smoldered all winter,
only to pop up through the snow in the spring.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881211-0027"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The House Agriculture Committee has planned hearings for next year
examining how the U.S. Forest Service handled last summer's stubborn
wildfires that scorched the West.  The focus will be on firefighting
policies, rehabilitation of charred areas, and on scientific research
being done on the summer fires.  The U.S. Forest Service said 5
million acres were charred in the raging blazes, including 706,000
acres in Yellowstone.  The Forest and National Park Service spent a
combined $300 million fighting the fires.  Drought conditions, high
winds, and a "tremendous build-up" of tinder helped make the 1988
fires the worst in a hundred years.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d41"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA052289-0050"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

The 1988 blazes at Yellowstone have flamed out but the controversy
they kindled is still smoldering.  It is sure to leave its mark on
future fire and management policies throughout the vast system of
national parks and wilderness areas.  Arguments still rage over the
impact of fires on wildlife, the conduct of officials responsible for
monitoring the blazes, and the role of the media in creating an
erroneous impression that a national treasure had been somehow reduced
to cinders.  In response, the Interior Department, parent of the
National Park Service, has already ordered a summer-long moratorium on
its politically sensitive "let-burn" policy.</SUM>
