<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP890814-0049 AP890308-0099 AP880318-0051 SJMN91-06189077
AP900721-0110 AP880911-0024 SJMN91-06193239"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
 
Eclipses of the sun or the moon draw attention and interest throughout
the world.  Eclipses occurring between 1988 and 1991 included three
total solar eclipses, two partial solar eclipses, and one total lunar
eclipse.  A solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the
Earth and the sun, blocking our ability to see the sun.  A lunar
eclipse occurs when the moon passes through the shadow created by the
Earth, blocking the sun's light.

The Chinese first recorded a total solar eclipse in 2137 B.C.  These
events arouse a variety of reactions and superstitions.  Different
cultures frequently hold religious services and some consider an
eclipse a bad omen and acquire charms or make loud noises.  More
modern cultures use them as an opportunity to sell souvenirs and tour
packages.  Looking directly at a solar eclipse without adequate
protection can seriously damage the eyes.  Warnings of this risk have
reduced eye injuries in the United States from 245 during a 1970
event, to three in 1984.

Two solar eclipses occurred in Asia in 1988.  On March 11, the sun was
blackened for almost four minutes along a 108 mile-swath from the
Indian Ocean across Indonesia and the Philippine island of Mindanao.
On September 11, a partial eclipse lasted for 90 minutes over India.
Another partial eclipse was visible across western North America on
March 8, 1989.  The moon eclipsed 37 percent of the sun, revealing gas
jets on the sun's surface and giant sunspots.  The first total solar
eclipse over Finland since 1945 occurred on July 22, 1990.  The sun
was darkened for 83 seconds over a 125- mile wide arc from the
northern Baltic to the Aleutian Islands.

A total solar eclipse called "the eclipse of the millennium" occurred
on July 11, 1991.  More than 40 million people viewed it, along a 160
mile-wide swath from Hawaii to Mexico to Colombia.  The sun was
totally darkened for six minutes.  Another to last as long will not
occur until 2132.

On August 16, 1989, a total eclipse of the moon was visible from five
continents.  The best viewing was from the eastern United States, but
it was also visible from South America, Western Europe, Africa and the
Antarctic.  The moon was total covered by the central part of the
Earth's shadow for one hour and 36 minutes.  This was the only total
lunar eclipse visible from North America between December 1982 and
December 1992.</SUM>
