<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880318-0051"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">    
 
Today, a total eclipse of the sun darkened a wide area of Indonesia
and the southern Philippines.  The sun was blackened out by the shadow
(sic) of the moon for up to four minutes along a 108-mile swath that
moved from the Indian Ocean across Indonesia and the Philippine island
of Mindanao.  A partial eclipse was visible across a wide are of Asia,
from Japan to India.  In reactions to the eclipse, Indonesians prayed
and beat drums, Malaysian Hindus visited temples, Indian pilgrims
dipped into sacred waters, members of the Naragcas tribe in the
Philippines danced, and many Christian Filipinos went to church.  The
Chinese first recorded a total solar eclipse in 2137B.C.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880911-0024"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   
 
On Sunday the moon partially passed between the Earth and sun bringing
a solar eclipse to India.  Hundreds of thousands of pilgrims bathed,
dressed and undressed, in the giant sacred pools at Kurukshetra.  Many
carried coconuts or gave alms to beggars and priests.  One 12-year-old
boy drowned.  Smaller numbers bathed at rivers and pools throughout
India.  The eclipse, which lasted about 90 minutes, was the third in
the past year.  The others occurred on March 18, 1988 and September
13, 1987.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890308-0099"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">  
  
A partial solar eclipse was visible across western North America on
Tuesday morning.  While the moon eclipsed 37 percent of the sun,
mountains on the edge of the moon could be seen silhouetted against
the sun.  Gas jets on the sun's surface and a giant group of sunspots
were also visible.  The eclipse was visible to some extent west of a
diagonal line stretching roughly from Mazatlan, Mexico, northeast to
Dallas and Chicago.  Scientists warned against staring at the sun
directly or through inadequate filters.  After an eclipse in 1970, 245
eye injuries were reported in the U.S., but warnings about the danger
reduced the number to three during a 1984 partial eclipse.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890814-0049"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

A total lunar eclipse visible from five continents will occur
Wednesday, beginning at 8:23pm EDT and ending 5 hours later.  The
eastern United States will get the best viewing, but it also will be
visible to observers in South America, western Europe, Africa and the
Antarctic.  A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes through the
shadow created by the Earth, blocking the suni's light.  The last
total lunar eclipse visible over most of North America occurred in
December 1982, the next one will be in December 1992.  Total eclipse,
when the entire moon is covered by the central part of the shadow,
will begin at about 10:20 pm and last one hour and 36 minutes.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900721-0110"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
   
The first total solar eclipse over Finland since 1945 will occur
Sunday.  The eclipse will begin at 4:03am (9:30pm Saturday EDT) when
the moon gradually begins moving between the Earth and the sun.  It
will end at 5:45am. Totality will last for 83 seconds.  About 10,000
people have converged on Joensuu, near the Soviet border, where
conditions are considered especially good for viewing.  The media have
been warning against eye damage.  Finn air has arranged a dozen
special flights for eclipse watchers.  The eclipse will be total in an
arc about 125 miles wide from the northern Baltic Sea across the Kola
Peninsula and northeast Soviet Union to the Aleutian Islands near
Alaska.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06189077"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">  
  
People in Mexico and Hawaii are preparing for a total eclipse to occur
on July 11.  On the island of Hawaii, 46,000 tourists are expected.
Six observatories on Mauna Kea will focus telescopes on the sun's
outer atmosphere.  Crowds of Californians are expected in Baja
California, where the totality will last the longest--up to 7 minutes.
This is the longest lasting eclipse until 2132. Some Mexicans consider
eclipses a bad omen and are taking precautions such as acquiring
garlic bulbs, magnets or old copper coins.  People are being warned
not to look directly at the sun without eye protection.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06193239"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

The "eclipse of the millennium" occurred this morning.  More than 40
million people saw the moon obscure the sun along a 160-mile-wide
swath from Hawaii to Mexico to Colombia. Clouds diminished the view
for many.  The total eclipse lasted more than six minutes.  Another to
last as long will not occur for 160 years.  Many devices were used to
allow watchers to follow the moon's path and see sunspots.  In Hawaii,
entrepreneurs sold almost all-imaginable souvenirs of the event, while
one church offered a nightly eclipse service.  Guatemalan Indian
villagers rang bells and banged pots and pans.  </SUM>
