<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA072089-0140"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">    

A United Airlines DC-10 with 293 aboard crashed just short of Sioux
City, Iowa's airport on July 20, 1989, after the pilot tried for
thirty minutes to bring the huge aircraft under control.  The plane
crashed into a cornfield and broke apart, then exploded and burned.
166 passengers walked away; 127 were killed.

The cause of the crash was complete hydraulic failure, unusual because
the DC-10 has three independent hydraulic systems, each capable of
controlling the plane.

It is believed that an engine exploded, causing metal shards to cut
some common ducts in the tail section, leading to the failure.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890111-0217"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

A Boeing 737 jetliner on a flight from London to Belfast crashed
during an emergency landing at East Midlands Airport.  The pilot had
radioed that the right engine was on fire, then called again to say
that he had shut the engine down and was coming in for a landing.
Actually the left engine had burned and the pilot had shut down the
wrong engine.  The crash killed 49 people and injured 82.  The pilot,
seriously hurt, was being questioned by investigators.

Authorities are ordering checks on similar engines on other aircraft,
including the possibility of crossed wires on warning systems.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880517-0226"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

A single engine Cessna P210 crashed into a ditch on the outskirts of
Albuquerque, New Mexico in squally weather, killing four adults and a
child.  The pilot had previously attempted a landing, but aborted the
try.  He was circling the field to try again when the crash occurred.
There was no fire, but the plane cartwheeled and all aboard were
killed.

An eye-witness, Walter Ramazinni, said that the plane had banked left
when a gust of wind caught him.  He banked to the right, then left,
and crashed. The National Transportation Safety Board will
investigate.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081489-0225"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

All sixteen aboard a twin engine Otter were killed after it crashed
into a mountain in Ethiopia. The wreckage was found after a six day
search in poor weather.  U.S. Army search helicopters had to lower men
to the ground at the site, since there was no landing area on the
mountainside, where the grade is 60%.

The plane was carrying Representative Mickey Leland of Texas to an
Ethiopian refugee camp, one of several he was touring as Chairman of
the House Select Committee on Hunger, which he helped to
establish. Other government officials were aboard.  The cause of the
crash is under investigation.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910304-0005"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

A United Airlines 737 jetliner has crashed in Colorado.  Twenty
passengers and a crew of five died as the plane nosedived to earth
while traveling from Denver to Colorado Springs.

This is the third crash of a United jet in three years.  In July, 1988
a United DC-10 crashed in Sioux City, Iowa with 110 fatalities, after
an engine broke apart in flight.  In February, 1989, the cargo door on
a United Boeing 747 opened in flight, ripping a hole in the fuselage.
Nine people were killed.

Wind shear is suspected in the latest crash.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0089"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

Pan American Flight 103 crashed in Lockerbie, Scotland last Wednesday
night and all 259 aboard and 22 people on the ground were killed.  The
plane evidently exploded in the air.  The flight was out of Heathrow
in London and at a normal cruising altitude of 31,000 feet.

Authorities believe the cause is sabotage. A bomb threat had been made
against Pan Am jetliners, and the State Department had passed the
information along to Pan Am.  A radical Palestinian group is believed
responsible.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092189-0123"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

A French DC-10 jetliner with 171 on board exploded in the air,
possibly from a terrorist bomb, in Niger, Northern Africa.  All aboard
presumably died, including the wife of the American Ambassador to
Chad.

Intelligence specialists in Washington believe the bombing may be in
retaliation against France for its recent Lebanese activities.  France
has been trying to broker a settlement there between Christian and
pro-Syrian forces.

The DC-10 was owned by the French airline UTA and crashed Tuesday,
September 19, after taking off from N'Djamena, Chad.

Anonymous callers claimed responsibility on behalf of the Islamic
Jihad.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ870818-0002"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

The MD82 Northwest Airline plane that crashed on takeoff August 16 in
Detroit had two previous incidents of engine failure, and was forced
to land in 1985 and 1986 following power loss in an engine.  Cause of
this crash has not been ascertained but engine failure seems likely.
154 were killed; a surviving child is in critical condition.  The
plane had a heavy fuel load and had ten more passengers on board than
its seat limit.

Engines of the type on the MD82 have had problems in the past and the
FBI is investigating reports of engine tampering.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d59"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA081589-0043"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

A single-engine Cessna 177 has crashed in Janice, Mississippi,
carrying Representative Larkin Smith of that state and his pilot to
their deaths.  They were flying from Hattiesburg to Gulfport after
Smith had thrown out the first ball at the Dixie Youth World Series
baseball tournament. The plane cut a swath 300 feet long through the
woods where the wreckage was found.  Searchers had spent all of Sunday
night combing the woods, but the plane was finally spotted from the
air.  No cause has been determined.

Smith was the second congressman in a week to die in a plane crash.
Wreckage of Representative Mickey Leland's plane was located on the
same day Representative Smith was killed.</SUM>
