<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=200 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
In the early 1990's, the problem of caring for the children of working
parents got growing attention.  An August 1990 U. S. Census study
revealed that 55% of mothers with children under five were employed.
Organized day-care centers cared for 2.2 million children.  Other
children are cared for by relatives or nannies.  Problems exist with
each of these alternatives.  A 1991 study concluded that one half of
the mothers who pay for child care change arrangements each year,
resulting in lost work.  Child-care problems cost U.S. business $3
billion annually according to one advocacy group.

Solutions to these problems were being sought in several areas.
Corporate care centers are aiming tailored arrangements at affluent
parents.  Some smaller employers were beginning to experiment with
services.  A growing number of big companies were joining joint
ventures aimed at raising the supply and quality of care for their
employees' children.  A nanny advocacy group was pushing for national
standards and training credentials for caregivers.  Government efforts
included legislation in 1990 to help poverty-level parents and a 1992
Internal Revenue Service decision easing deduction requirements for
homes used by day-care providers.  
</SUM>

