<SUM TYPE=MULTI SIZE=400 DOCREF=WSJ900402-0112 WSJ900815-0085
WSJ910926-0089 WSJ920106-0000 WSJ900618-0028 WSJ910205-0059
WSJ911017-0145 WSJ900706-0092 WSJ910905-0001 WSJ911023-0158>
In the early 1990's, the problem of caring for the children of working
parents got growing attention.  In August 1990, a U. S. Census study
was released comparing 1987 with older data.  This study revealed that
55% of mothers with children under five were employed.  Organized
day-care centers cared for 2.2 million of the children at an average
cost of $49 a week.  Organized day care includes both small,
home-based facilities and larger, often corporate managed, centers.
Other children, especially those living at the poverty level, are
cared for by relatives.  There was an increasing demand for nannies,
many of whom are provided by more than 500 placement agencies,
nation-wide.

Problems exist with each of these alternatives.  Problems with
organized centers include the high cost, low paid and at times poorly
trained workers, high child/worker ratios, inconvenient locations, and
service hours not compatible with workers' schedules.  Nannies can be
poorly trained, unreliable, or unhappy.  Women, caring for relatives'
children, more frequently are taking other jobs.  A 1991 study
concluded that one half of the mothers who pay for child care change
arrangements each year.  Each change can result in lost work.
Child-care problems cost U.S. business $3 billion annually according
to one advocacy group.

Solutions to these problems were being sought in several areas.
Corporate care centers are hoping to turn a profit by marketing
advances.  These advances, aimed at affluent parents, include 24-7
service, better locations, and tailored service providing recreational
classes, transportation arrangements or take-home meals.  Not all
corporations were being successful.  Employers were seeking solutions
in several areas.  Traditionally only large employers could afford
day-care centers.  Some smaller companies were beginning to experiment
with subsidies, referral services, and on-site day care.  A growing
number of big companies were joining joint ventures aimed at raising
the supply and quality of care for their employees' children.
Initiatives include joint day- care centers and creating more family
run centers.  Corporations found that even small efforts to increase
benefits to day-care workers, could have a big impact on their
credentials and turnover.  A nanny advocacy group was pushing for
national standards and training credentials for caregivers.
Government efforts included legislation in 1990 to help poverty-level
parents with paying for care and broadening their choices.  In 1992,
the Internal Revenue Service reversed its April 1991 requirements for
deductions related to use of the home by day-care providers.  The 1991
decision had been expected to raise day-care costs.  
</SUM>

