
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890623-0230 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-23-89 1608EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>a f BC-Japanese-Vegas Adv26   06-23 0971</FIRST>
<SECOND>BC-Japanese-Vegas, Adv 26,1003</SECOND>
<HEAD>$adv26</HEAD>
<HEAD>For release Monday June 26 and thereafter</HEAD>
<HEAD>Appetite for Vegas Real Estate Continues to Grow</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT MACY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LAS VEGAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Japanese investors, attracted by bargain
properties and a dramatic increase in tourism here by their
countrymen, have spent or committed $800 million in this
entertainment capital and it's fueling an economic boom.
   The projects range from four hotel-casinos to a downtown office
building and a massive golf course and resort development.
   More than 380,000 Japanese tourists are expected to visit Las
Vegas this year, vs. about 300,000 in 1988. That is not lost on some
of Japan's leading economic players.
   ``More than half the Japanese tourists who come to Los Angeles
will also come to Las Vegas,'' said Yoshi Morichika, who is heading
up a 1,274-acre golf and destination resort community for Japanese
recreation and electronics giant Cosmo World.
   The project, in nearby Henderson, will include 45 holes of golf,
2,700 condominiums, apartments and luxury homes, a dozen tennis
courts, a tennis stadium and a 700-room hotel.
   Cosmo World has projects in Japan, Europe, Hawaii, Los Angeles,
San Francisco and Tucson. It added Las Vegas to the list ``because
the land is not expensive, yet, and there is a huge volume of
Japanese tourists here,'' Morichika said in an interview.
   Jane Wilson, who handles international marketing for the Las
Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, says Japanese tourism has
been increasing at about 20 percent a year, and is expected to jump
about 27 percent this year.
   ``If they come to the West Coast, we're going to get them,'' she
said. ``In their culture, they want to go where a city is known
worldwide, where there are a lot of things to do such as shows,
shopping, sightseeing, et cetera.''
   The growing identity of Las Vegas in Japan, bargain real estate
prices, a good economic climate and the attractiveness of the city
are proving a magnet for Japanese investors. The Nevada Development
Authority says Las Vegas is the sixth-fastest growing metropolitan
area in the United States.
   Cosmo World's resort project is expected to cost $200 million by
the time it's completed in 1993.
   Japanese billionaire Masao Nangaku, who bought the Dunes Hotel
and Casino two years ago for $157 million, is planning a 35-story
high-rise office building and 300-room nongaming hotel in downtown
Las Vegas. The cost, when completed in 1991, will be about $120
million.
   A group of Japanese investors have agreed to help Orlando, Fla.
developer Bob Snow finance a $130 million dining and entertainment
complex known as Winchester Station. Snow is seeking a new site for
the project because some landowners in downtown Las Vegas balked at
selling their property.
   Japanese businessman Katsuki Manabe, who owns more than 30
arcades in Tokyo, has invested $30 million in the Park Hotel in
downtown Las Vegas and millions more in his Nevada-based Sigma
Games, a gaming equipment maker.
   Millionaire Ginji Yasuda has invested more than $120 million in
the Aladdin Hotel.
   The move by the Japanese into the sophisticated gaming industry
has not been smooth.
   Yasuda, a high-rolling gambler before he bought the Aladdin, has
experienced financial problems at the resort in recent months,
forcing him to dig for sources to pay back taxes and some suppliers.
   However, one top Nevada gaming source, who asked not to be
identified, said Yasuda's license was up for reconsideration earlier
this year and would not have been continued ``if he had not been
able to meet his gaming obligations.''
   The same source said the Japanese had taken over depressed
properties and kept them open ``and any stride forward is a positive
sign.''
   The Dunes and Aladdin had been operating under bankruptcy
protection for years before they were purchased by Nangaku and
Yasuda. The Park, the former Holiday Inn downtown, had been closed
for five years before it was refurbished and opened by Manabe.
   Mike Rumbolz, former Gaming Control Board chairman who now heads
Donald Trump's efforts to enter Nevada gaming, said the Japanese
were hampered because they bought distressed properties that
couldn't make it under American expertise.
   Sukeaki Izumi, who owns five hotels in Japan and Guam, recently
purchased another closed property, the former Treasury Hotel, which
he has renamed the San Remo. Izumi, who looked at properties in
Hawaii but opted for Las Vegas because of the lower costs, has
committed $30 million for the purchase and renovation of the hotel.
   Don Woodsmall, who serves with Morichika as project manager of
the Cosmo World project, said Las Vegas was picked by the Japanese
company, in part, ``because the housing market is so strong here.''
   Representatives of the company began looking for land in late
1987 and selected a site 10 minutes south of the Las Vegas Strip.
   Work on the Cosmo World project is scheduled to start in the
first quarter of 1990. Several major hotel chains have expressed an
interest in running the resort, Morichika said.
   Izumi, a millionaire industrialist, became involved in the hotel
business six years ago when he bought a property in Osaka.
   He switched his focus here, he said, because the city was
smaller, the cost of living was lower, real estate prices were more
attractive, and he liked the way of life.
   Izumi moved to Las Vegas in December and plans to run the San
Remo personally. The 324-room European-style property is scheduled
to reopen July 1. Izumi has plans for a $30 million 16-story,
340-room tower next year, followed by a second tower and expansion
of the casino.
   When Nangaku bought the Dunes Hotel two years ago, his attorney
predicted other Japanese businessmen would follow.
   They did.
   ``This area is very attractive to the Japanese businessman,''
Izumi said. ``There is no other city like Las Vegas in the world.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End adv for Monday June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>

