<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP900107-0033 LA073089-0118 FT934-5781 AP880310-0257
AP881104-0268 WSJ910405-0160 LA011389-0019 SJMN91-06080232
AP881108-0168"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  
 
Gun control is an emotional issue in this country.  A sampling of news
articles on the subject illustrates the wide spectrum of opinions and
some of the political consequences and ramifications.

One example is a report of a plastic handgun, not yet manufactured but
already stirring a controversy.  Gun control proponents want to add
enough metal to the plastic material to make it detectable at airport
security checkpoints.  The National Rifle Association (NRA) and other
opponents of controls want to make airport security machines more
sensitive.

The Brady Bill passed Congress, mandating a 5-7 day waiting period for
buying handguns so that law enforcement officials may, if they wish,
do a background check on the purchaser.

However, the NRA claims that legislation won't stop crime.  Stiffer
sentencing and abolition of parole are their solutions.  The Second
Amendment is another rallying cry; they interpret this as citizen
protection against an imagined future despotic government.

The issue becomes hotter during an election campaign.  In the Bush-
Dukakis presidential race in 1988, Dukakis' campaign was made more
difficult because of his past pro gun-legislation stance.  Bush, a
lifetime NRA member, had their support.

Across the nation, Senators McClure (R) and Metzenbaum (D) dueled over
the new plastic gun.  Also in the west, Rep. Les AuCoin abandoned the
NRA line and espoused the Brady Bill backers.  He noted rising crime
statistics and constituent concerns.

Another who abandoned the NRA was Sen. Dennis DeConcini.  All
recognized they imperiled their chances for reelection in defying the
powerful gun lobby.

One of the most volatile areas of the country is the District of
Columbia where 438 killings and 1300 woundings (1989) were attributed
to handguns despite a District ban.  Most confiscated handguns came
from Virginia (52%) while 18% were acquired in Maryland; the remainder
had scattered origins.  This gave rise to cries for nationwide laws.
The NRA disagreed.
		
The New England Journal of Medicine compared Vancouver and Seattle's
firearm deaths in a given period and found Vancouver (25) safer than
Seattle (139). Vancouver forbids guns for self defense and concealed
weapons.  Guns can only be fired at licensed shooting clubs.  In
Seattle, handguns may be purchased for self-defense and licensed as a
concealed weapon after 30 days.
 
The NRA has lost ground of late.  Fighting back, they have deluged
their members with mail urging cash contributions for their depleted
coffers and contacts with lawmakers to further their cause.  </SUM>
