<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900107-0033"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">  
  
The District of Columbia had 438 murders in 1989 and over 1300
woundings. 70% of them were gun related. This despite the fact that
guns had been banned in the city ten years before.

A survey of the source of the guns seized in D.C. shows that 52%
originated in Virginia, 18% in Maryland and the remainder had
scattered origins.  An analysis showed that most are handguns, half
are semi-automatic weapons, and the majority were expensive weapons,
of law-enforcement quality or better.

Washington's location, abutting Maryland and Virginia, demonstrates
that a federal law is necessary.  The National Rifle Association
disagrees.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880310-0257"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K">   
 
Senators McClure (R) and Metzenbaum (D) have sponsored bills to
prevent plastic guns from slipping through airport security.  The gun,
not yet manufactured, is intended for military and police use.

Metzenbaum's bill would require some detectable metal content;
McClure's would require more sensitive detection equipment at
airports, almost certainly causing passenger delays.

The NRA opposes "the first federal gun ban bill in America," and warns
members their guns will soon be inspected and weighed by government
agents.

However, on this issue they will compromise, not to ban the gun, but
to increase airport security.  Handgun control advocates and law
enforcement officials back Metzenbaum's proposal.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881104-0268"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

Mike Dukakis' effort to tighten government controls on handguns
provided ammunition for Rep. George Bush and the NRA in the 1988
presidential election against Dukakis.  Although Dukakis supported the
Brady Bill, a 7-day wait for gun purchases, and a ban on Saturday
Night Specials, he said he is not against guns for sports and
protection.

Bush, as a presidential candidate and a lifetime member of the NRA,
opposed new federal gun controls, although he voted for federal laws
in 1968 as a congressman.

Dukakis says 22,000 Americans are killed yearly by handguns; Bush
says..."I have a deep appreciation for Second Amendment rights."
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881108-0168"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

A study by the New England Journal of Medicine shows that Vancouver is
safer than Seattle because of its strict gun laws.  Between 1980 and
1986 there were 25 gun deaths in Vancouver, 139 in Seattle.

In Seattle handguns may be purchased for self-defense, and after a 30
day wait carried as a concealed weapon.

In Vancouver, a person may not purchase a gun for self-defense or
carry a concealed weapon.  Guns can only be fired at licensed shooting
clubs.

Gun organizations, the NRA and Citizens' Committee for the Right to
Keep and Bear Arms dispute the conclusions and advocate stricter
penalties.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910405-0160"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

An article in the Wall Street Journal reports that problems abound in
the Brady Bill gun control proposal which mandates a 7-day waiting
period.  During that week law enforcement officials can, but are not
required to investigate the purchaser.  Part of the problem is a lack
of national criminal records; dealers have no list to check.

Another argument is that fewer than 20% of guns are purchased from
dealers and, there are already 150 million guns in circulation in the
U.S.

The Bush proposal, however, closes some of the loopholes for
punishment.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06080232"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

An editorial in the San Jose Mercury News by Representative Les AuCoin
explains why he no longer votes the NRA line.  Following is a brief
summary of his thoughts:

AuCoin notes that crime has increased since his election; with 50,000
gun deaths since the Brady Bill was first proposed.  The streets are
dangerous, he feels, with increased crime and gang activity.  This has
convinced him to abandon the NRA line and support the Brady Bill.
AuCoin says that Oregon is no longer an island.

AuCoin believes his constituents are less concerned by a waiting
period than about the increasing gun violence.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA011389-0019"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

A coalition of California law enforcement officials concerned about
proliferation of semiautomatic firearms is drafting legislation to
outlaw the manufacture and sale of such guns.

Pitted against this effort is the National Rifle Association and the
Gun Owners of California who oppose any controls.

The NRA contends that the legislation will not deter criminals from
acquiring the weapons, but will hurt law-abiding citizens.  They favor
harsher treatment of criminals: no plea bargaining, no parole.
Proposed legislation would exempt "good guns," those used by hunters,
target shooters and collectors.  The difficulty, they feel, is in
distinguishing the two types since all operate on the same principle.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-5781"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

The issue of gun control stirs passionate responses on both sides.

Congress has passed the Brady Bill, the first legislation since 1968,
mandating a five-day wait on the purchase of a handgun, giving law
enforcement authorities time to check the buyer's background.

The NRA, with 3.3 million members, claims that legislation will not
stem crime; the answer is stiffer penalties, longer sentences and
abolition of parole.  Further they believe that gun ownership is
necessary to prevent takeover by a despotic government.  The Second
Amendment is their rallying point.

Gun Control has become a pivotal issue in many elections, influencing
who wins, who loses.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA073089-0118"
SELECTOR="K"
SUMMARIZER="K"> 

The National Rifle Association is battling against those who would
enact state or federal gun control legislation, using direct mail to
raise depleted funds and urge members to contact legislators.

The NRA suffered a series of setbacks in the past three years as
Congress and state legislatures enacted bans on "cop killer bullets,"
Saturday Night Specials and plastic guns that elude metal detectors.
Well publicized shootings of children in school settings have fueled
this activity.

Various states have passed gun control acts and prominent law
enforcement officials and politicians, such as U.S. Senator Dennis
DeConcini have ceased supporting the NRA cause.  </SUM>
