<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="FT934-10679 LA122189-0144 AP901027-0090 AP890525-0127 SJMN91-06170171
LA112590-0024 AP890519-0070 SJMN91-06190144
AP890719-0134 SJMN91-06183053"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

Disastrous volcanic eruptions in the 1980s prompted the US Geological
Survey to improve volcanic forecasting. They have studied volcanic
histories, distinguished eruption-associated tremors, and developed
expendable instruments that transmit remotely and can be optimally
placed. Eruptions were predicted for Alaska's Redoubt Volcano in 1989
and the Philippines' Pinatubo in 1991. In 1986, Colombia's officials
were warned of the Nevado del Ruiz eruption but didn't order
evacuation and nearly 25,000 died.

California's Long Valley, a 19-mile caldera created by an eruption 600
times larger than Mt. St. Helens, ignored 1989 warnings when
underground lava movement triggered earthquakes, remembering a 1982
false alarm that damaged the tourist-based economy.  Residents accused
journalists of sensationalism and scientists of scaring people to get
more funding.

Studies indicate that eruptions produce stress-related illnesses,
their dust and gases stay aloft for years and affect sky colors and
etch airliner windows, but their cooling effect is minimal. Solar heat
blocked by dust is balanced by trapped earth heat.  In Hawaii, whose
five main islands are tops of volcanos, a new island, Loihi, is
growing off the Big Island coast and tapping the same magma source as
Kilauea, which has erupted continuously since 1983 and is a tourist
attraction.  </SUM>
