<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="FT934-10679 LA122189-0144 AP901027-0090 AP890525-0127 SJMN91-06170171
LA112590-0024 AP890519-0070 SJMN91-06190144
AP890719-0134 SJMN91-06183053"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

Disastrous volcanic eruptions in the 1980s included Washington's Mount
St. Helens in 1980 that killed 57 and caused $1 billion in property
damage; Mexico's El Chichon, which erupted without warning in 1982;
and Colombia's 1986 Nevado del Ruiz when officials were warned but
didn't order evacuation and nearly 25,000 died. Since then the US
Geological Survey's improvements in volcanic forecasting accuracy have
included development of cheaper, expendable instruments that transmit
remotely and can be optimally placed; study of volcanic histories; and
recognition of eruption-associated tremors.

Studies have said that in 80 years, global climate impact may have
come only from El Chichon, Bali's Agung in 1963 and the Philippines'
Pinatubo in 1991, twice the size of Mt. St. Helen's. Cooling is
minimal because solar heat blocked by dust is balanced by trapped
earth heat, unlike greenhouse gases which do not block sunlight. In
cold 1816, volcanic cooling effects were joined by El Nino. But dust
and gases from Pinatubo would likely stay aloft for five years,
affecting sky colors and etching airliner windows. Other studies have
disproved that volcanoes are more likely to erupt at certain times of
year and suggested volcanos have individual microgravity change
patterns. In Japan, doctors reported stress-related illnesses in
people and pets following 1989 eruptions.

Eruptions were predicted for Alaska's Redoubt Volcano in 1989 and
Pinatubo, dormant for 600 years. Redoubt still caused $80 million in
aircraft damage, closure of an oil storage terminal, and halt of most
regional flights. At Pinatubo, evacuation resulted in factory
closings, looting, and damage to agriculture and Clark and Subic Bay
military bases, but only 338 people died.

As in Guadeloupe, a false alarm embittered California's Long Valley, a
19-mile caldera created 730,000 years ago by an eruption 600 times
larger than Mt. St. Helens. When new underground lava movement began
triggering thousands of tiny earthquakes in May 1989, chance of an
eruption was low and residents refused to heed warnings, remembering a
1982 scare that damaged the tourist-based economy and aggravated a
recession. They accused journalists of sensationalism and scientists
of scaring people to get more funding.

In Hawaii, whose five main islands are tops of volcanos formed when
the Pacific Plate moved over the "Hawaiian hot spot", a new island,
Loihi, is growing off the Big Island coast and tapping the same magma
source as Kilauea, which has erupted continuously since 1983 and is a
tourist attraction.  </SUM>
