<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT934-10679"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  
  
Over 28,500 people died from eruptions in the 1980s, most in
Colombia's 1986 Nevado del Ruiz eruption, prompting the US Geological
Survey to improve forecasting. They predicted the eruptions of
Alaska's Redoubt Volcano in 1989 and the Philippines' Pinatubo in
1991. In Hawaii, resorts ask the USGS for best viewing times for
Kilauea, which has erupted continuously since 1983 and become a
tourist attraction. After Washington's Mount St. Helens wiped out
timberland, Weyerhaueuser consulted experts on where to replant. But
after California's Long Valley and Guadeloupe's tourist economies
suffered from false alarms, Long Valley residents refuse to heed land
use warnings.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100" 
DOCREF="LA122189-0144"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 
   
Eruption of Costa Rica's Poas volcano in April and May was preceded by
two years of increasing gravity, thought to result from the intrusion
of subsurface magma into the volcanic cone. After Poas's last eruption
in 1953, lake depth stayed the same until 1983 when it began
decreasing as heating magma caused water to evaporate. Erupting water
geysers in June 1987 brought levels down faster and water was gone by
April 1989 when Poas erupted in a mile-high cloud of ash. Eruptions
subsided when rains refilled the lake.  Guatemala's Pacayo volcano,
which erupted 10 years ago, has a different gravity change pattern.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901027-0090"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 
    
California's Long Valley is a 19-mile caldera created 730,000 years
ago by an eruption 600 times larger than Mount St. Helens. In May
1989, new underground lava movement began triggering thousands of tiny
earthquakes and raising the valley floor. Residents refuse to heed
warnings, remembering a 1982 false alarm that damaged tourism and
aggravated a recession. Afterward, journalists were accused of
sensationalism and scientists of scaring people to get more
funding. Currently, 5-10 small quakes happen daily as the Earth's
crust is stretched apart and magma fills half-mile-wide chambers four
miles under the caldera, but the probability of eruption is less than
one percent.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06183053"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  
     
Mt. Unzen, the site of Japan's worst volcanic disaster which killed
15,000 people in 1792, erupted for the first time in 198 years on
Nov. 17. It erupted in early June killing 41 people. Rain swept ash
and rocks down rivers and the mudflow spread five miles. The volcano
is still spewing out gas, rocks and ash.

The Philippines' Mt. Pinatubo is in its fourth week of eruptions after
being dormant 600 years. 338 people were killed and $15 million damage
done to crops. Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base were severely
damaged. Low-frequency tremors were felt prior to the eruptions.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA112590-0024"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H"> 
       
An undersea mountain named Loihi, SE of the Big Island of Hawaii, has
grown 10,100 feet from the Pacific floor and needs 3,100 more feet to
emerge as the ninth Hawaiian island.  The five main islands are tops
of volcanic mountains, formed when the Pacific Plate moved over the
"Hawaiian hot spot". Their ages are: Kauai, 5.6 million years; Oahu,
3.4 million years; Molokai, 1.8 million years; Maui, 800,000
years. Hawaii is under 700,000. Its two active volcanoes are Kilauea
and Mauna Loa. Loihi seems to be tapping the same source of magma as
Kilauea, which resumed erupting Jan 3, 1983.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890525-0127"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

Two scientists say volcanic eruptions may have little effect on
climate cooling. The cold weather in 1816 has been blamed on a series
of eruptions worldwide between 1812 and 1815, but the periodic warming
and cooling effect of El Nino, which brought arctic air south, was
also involved. Only the largest eruptions effect a modest cooling for
one or two years. Volcanic dust clouds drastically reduce the solar
beam but also trap the earth's heat, unlike greenhouse gases which do
not block sunlight. Also, volcanic dust has a negligible effect
because it shades a small portion of the earth's surface.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890519-0070"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">

NASA scientist Richard B. Stothers, who studied the dates of strong
eruptions between 1500 and 1980, has disproven the theory that
volcanoes are more likely to erupt at certain times of the
year. Nearly all recorded eruptions south of 50 degrees south latitude
occurred between November and April because outsiders who could record
eruptions only visit that uninhabited region during its summer. No
similar pattern is seen in the far north, where residents are always
present. The peak monthly total of eruptions was 52 for February and
36 for both April and December, a statistical variation expected to
occur randomly.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06170171"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">  

Studying volcanic eruptions in the 1980s has resulted in better
forecasting through expendable instruments that can transmit remotely
and be optimally placed, increased knowledge of individual volcanic
history, and distinctive tremor recognition. Eruptions at Alaska's
Redoubt in 1989 and the Philippines' Pinatubo, which began giving
signs of erupting two months ago after 600 years, were both
forecast. Pinatubo's evacuation was expensive, considering the
looting, factory shutdowns, and unattended crops and livestock; but
only 101 lives have been lost so far. At Colombia's Nevado del Ruiz
eruption six years ago, officials were warned but didn't order
evacuation, resulting in 22,000 deaths.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890719-0134"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">   
  
An undersea volcano erupted off the coast of Ito, Japan on July 13th,
creating a mound 82 feet high. Thousands of tremors and several
volcanic eruptions have occurred in the past two weeks and authorities
warn the volcano is likely to erupt again. Doctors report a growing
number of stress-related illnesses, including insomnia and
gastritis. People didn't feel sick for a couple of days after the
eruption because they were still tense. Pets, more sensitive and
feeling temblors and noises more strongly, developed similar symptoms
the very next day. Humans have information which helps to relieve
tensions but animals don't.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06190144"
SELECTOR="H"
SUMMARIZER="H">   

The cloud of dust and gases from Mt. Pinatubo's eruption last month,
over twice the size of Mexico's El Chichon in 1982, rose into the
stratosphere and covers 50% of the globe.  Sulfur dioxide in the plume
becomes sulfuric acid and etches airliner windows. The plume may
remain aloft for five years and is tracked by satellite. Suns appear
green and moons blue in tropical regions, and in northern autumn the
horizon will glow purple at sunrise and sunset.  In the past 80 years,
three eruptions may have had global climatic impact -- El Chichon,
Agung in Bali in 1963, and Pinatubo.  </SUM>
