<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880217-0175"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A">   

A coalition of members of Congress plans to sue the Census Bureau to
prevent it from including illegal immigrants in its 1990 census
count. The suit to be filed by some 40 members of Congress and the
Federation for American Immigration Reform contends that including 2
million or more illegal aliens in the count would cause unfair shifts
of seats from one state to another when reapportionment takes
place. Census officials counter that the U.S. Constitution calls for
apportionment to be based on the "whole number of persons" residing in
the various states and makes no mention of citizenship in this
regard.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880330-0119"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

While there is pressure on the Census Bureau to exclude illegal aliens
from its national head count, other groups urge the Bureau to adjust
its final figures to account for people missed in the census--mostly
minorities in urban areas. A population expert with the Population
Reference Bureau says that deleting the illegal aliens and adding an
estimate of the uncounted would result in a loss of one seat for
California and a gain of one seat for Georgia. The expert also
predicted that Northeast and Midwest states will lose 14 House seats
following the 1990 census, continuing a trend observed for several
decades.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880623-0135"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

There was vigorous debate in the House Census Subcommittee Thursday
over whether illegal aliens should be counted in the 1990 census. On
the one side it was argued that states with large numbers of illegal
aliens benefit unfairly getting extra house seats as a result of
having residents who have violated the law while the rights of honest
citizens in other states are violated as they lose representation in
the House. On the other side it was pointed out that the Constitution
requires a count of all the "persons" in the country for purposes of
reapportionment and does not specify citizens.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071589-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The U.S. Senate voted Thursday to exclude illegal aliens from the 1990
census, causing an immediate and strong reaction in California. With
an estimated 50% of the nations 3-8 million illegal aliens, California
could lose Congressional seats and as much as $300 million in federal
aid as a result of the Senate vote unless the measure is overturned by
the House of Representatives. Critics term the action outrageous
arguing that the Senate measure is probably unconstitutional and would
result in fear and intimidation among recent immigrants, discouraging
them from participating in the census.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890719-0225"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The U.S. Senate has passed an amendment directing the Census Bureau
for the first time to exclude illegal aliens from its count in the
1990 census, but it is unlikely to be approved by the House in time
for the head count next year. Opponents of the amendment argue that it
is both unconstitutional and unworkable. The constitution says that
apportionment of congressional seats will be based on "the whole
number of persons in each state" and makes no mention of citizenship
in this regard. The Census Bureau says the amendment would make the
job of an accurate count more difficult than ever.</SUM>
  
<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890802-0064"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The House has blocked an effort to exclude aliens from the census
numbers used in reapportionment. Undocumented aliens are concentrated
in the South, West, and industrial states like New York, and other
states fear a loss of power to those areas if the aliens are
counted. Although all residents have been counted in previous censuses
and the Constitution requires that apportionment be based on all the
"persons" residing in a state, the issue remains active in House
committees and on the floor. One proponent of excluding aliens stated
that their inclusion in the count "...  may be constitutional, but
it's just not right."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ890828-0011"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Debate continues in the House on whether to include the question: "Are
you an illegal immigrant?" on the 1990 census forms and to exclude
those answering "yes" from totals used in reapportionment. Those in
favor are largely from states with few illegal aliens.  Those opposed
tend to be from states with large populations of illegal aliens. The
Census Bureau is opposed, fearing increasing difficulty getting the
cooperation of immigrants. Opponents seem to have a clear edge in the
legal argument but proponents complain, "Illegal aliens are actually
taking representation away from Americans." Both sides predict that
the issue will eventually be decided in court.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0126"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

The Senate voted Friday to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal
aliens in the 1990 census. A Senate-House conference committee will
decide whether the prohibition is retained in the appropriations bill
for the State, Justice and Commerce departments. It is expected that
House conferees will resist the Senate ban.  The Secretary of Commerce
has said he will ask President Bush to veto any such provision that
might reach his desk. Sen Moynihan (D-N.Y.) observed that the
government had counted all inhabitants for 190 years and advised
against "fiddling with the numbers."  Sen. Cochran (R-Miss.), on the
other hand, opined that "...illegal aliens ought to be deported, not
counted."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA093089-0076"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

In a blow to California and other states with large immigrant
populations, the Senate voted Friday to bar the Census Bureau from
counting illegal aliens in the 1990 census.  Since the House has
already rejected such a proposal, administration officials, who argued
that the measure is both unconstitutional and unworkable, hope that it
is dropped after referral to a Senate-House conference. Minority
leader Dole (R-Kan.)  complained that "Some states will lose
congressional seats because of illegal aliens."  Sen. Wilson
(R-Calif.) countered that excluding illegal residents is unfair to
states that have suffered from a huge influx of immigration.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d19"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA102189-0151"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 

Thursday negotiators from the U.S. Senate and House agreed on
including illegal aliens in the 1990 census. The agreement will go
back to each body before it is sent to President Bush, but it is
considered likely to be approved. Officials in Orange County,
California were quick to call for counting all residents and
opposition to "all attempts to systematically exclude any groups from
the census." It was estimated that exclusion of the county's 200,000
illegal aliens would result in the loss of approximately $56 million a
year in federal revenue and possible loss of representatives in
Congress.</SUM>
