<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871216-0037"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">      

The Bank of Boston's decisions to write off $200 million in loans to
less-developed countries and place most of its Third World loans on a
non-accrual basis are expected to have major repercussions.
U.S. banks are split into two groups: large, money-center banks with
thin reserves against Third World loans, which hope of collect on
these loans, and smaller, regional institutions, with few Third World
loans, which establish big reserves or declare such loans
uncollectable.  If the major banks were to follow the regionals' lead,
they could dangerously reduce common equity/assets ratio levels, some
far below the 4% accepted as prudent.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880621-0079"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The World Bank is being criticized for failing to adequately respond
to the Third World debt crisis.  Reagan appointee President Barber
Conable clings to a traditional role for the bank as a
development--not financial--institution, supports the administration's
plan of loans to countries pursuing economic reforms, and rarely
intervenes in individual nations' crises.  Many economists and
politicians urge a more aggressive role.  A recent Conable study
suggests this may begin after Reagan leaves office.  The Third World
debt totaled $1.19 trillion last year.  In 1986, the 17 most heavily
indebted nations paid back lenders $18 billion more than they got in
new loans.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880926-0203"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Brazil led Third World countries in asking for debt relief help from
the industrialized nations.  Yesterday the Brazilian Foreign Minister
said hunger is endemic throughout Asia, Africa, and much of America.
In West Berlin, finance ministers of 22 richer countries demanded
action to help with repayment of the $1.2 trillion debt.  There have
been calls for creditors to write off some debts, reschedule other
debts, and increased financial aid from industrial nations, which
spend an average of only 0.34% of their GNP on help to developing
nations.  Seven key, non-communist, industrialized nations recently
approved a plan to help the poorest nations.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA091889-0088"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The World Bank annual report revealed that Third World countries paid
$50.1 billion more to service debts last year, than they received in
new loans. This net cash drain began in 1984.  The Third World debt is
estimated to be $993 billion, with an annual debt service "interest
and principle payments" of $143 billion.  The Bank report also noted
mixed results with Third World economies, with some improvement
generally in nations with sensible economic policies and none in
nations with heavily state-owned economies.  Industrialized nations
need to increase their help and the Bank plans to emphasis programs to
ease poverty and help the environment.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900416-0188"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

"Village banking," one effort to ease world poverty, appears to
work. Envisioned five years ago by John Hatch, the plan is a system of
investment using small revolving loans to poor women to finance their
small, quick-turnover, private enterprises. There are now 400 village
banks, each with 40 to 50 women, in nine countries.  Portfolios total
$1.6 million and repayment is 96%.  Hatch has support from the
Catholic Relief Service, Rotary Club, and U.S. Agency for
International Development, and proposals pending with other
foundations and corporations.  Loans are small, but with quick
payback, low interest, and savings a woman's credit line
increases.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-5176"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Lord Bauer, of Britain, believes we should not encourage Third World
nations to default on their debts.  He wrote to the Financial Times
that if loaned funds are used productively, debt service is not a
burden.  Material achievements decline as nations get away from
western commerce.  Domestic factors, policies, and dependence on
subsistence production cause poverty.  The poorest in a country are
the lowest priority and sometimes the victims of civil conflict and
ethnic or religious prejudices.  Harping on western causes of Third
World poverty is useless and encouraging nations to default will
inhibit further investments.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT911-2650"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Lewis Preston will take over as World Bank president in September.  He
is being given much advice on how to turn the Bank around, after a
decade of relative failure, and institute policies to ease the Third
World debt crisis and widespread poverty. One billion people live on
less than $1 a day.  More than 110 million children lack access to
even primary education.  Real per capita incomes have declined.  The
Third World debt is $1,341 billion.  Changes are recommended for past
positions of not forgiving debts and structural adjustment loans, and
placing more emphasis on infrastructure investment and direct poverty
relief.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910607-0063"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

Micro-enterprise lending is now booming.  U.S. development groups
believe this support to grassroots enterprises is a way to export
free-market economics and fuel growth in the developing world.  One
group, Accion, plans to increase micro-lending in Latin America to
$66.5 million this year and expand to between $500 million and $1
billion by 1996.  Other participants include CARE of New York, Trickle
Up, and Save the Children.  Some Third World banks are paying
attention.  Individual loans are between $50 and $500, while repayment
rates continue to be above 90%.  The U.S. Agency for International
Development has doubled its micro-enterprise budget from 1988.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-8860"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

The World Bank has made poverty alleviation the bank's central mission
in the 1990's, according to an operational directive to staff issued
today.  The bank will link loan volume to the country's efforts to
fight poverty.  Poverty assessments should be available for most
developing countries within two years.  The bank, reacting to evidence
that poverty will rise during the 1990's, will attempt to impose a
form of "social conditionality" on borrowing countries.  Governments
with stronger commitment to poverty reduction will get greater
support.  Past bank efforts focused on improving economic efficiency
with structural adjustment lending.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d30"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT932-12322"
SELECTOR="E"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

World Bank president, Lewis Preston, promised yesterday to strengthen
the bank's efforts to reduce poverty, but will not set any targets.
Preston said the bank was making progress.  In 1982 only 5% of
structural adjustment loans had a specific poverty focus, while in
1992 almost 50% did.  The bank will publish annual progress reports
and involve the poor in project design and implementation.  East Asia
has reduced the proportion of people in absolute poverty to 10%, but
in sub-Saharan Africa the proportion has increased to 50%.  Preston
said the concerned governments must cooperate and called for money
from the Group of Seven.</SUM>
