<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP890405-0266 AP900323-0036 AP890406-0216 LA021390-0034 LA032390-0053
AP890909-0143 AP890404-0260 AP890401-0065 LA040689-0056"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">  

One of the petroleum industry's worst disasters occurred on March 24,
1989, at 12:04 local time, when the Exxon oil tanker, Valdez, carrying
1.26 million barrels of north shore crude oil, grounded on a reef in
Alaska's Prince William Sound.  Earlier, the tanker had disappeared
from Coast Guard radar as it detoured around ice in the treacherous
sound.  Immediate reactions included closing Port Valdez and
dispatching a Coast Guard tug.  The Exxon Baton Rouge was dispatched
to begin off-loading the remaining crude.
	
One million barrels of crude were transferred and the tanker was not
refloated until April 5.  The Valdez was moved to Naked Island for
emergency repairs before moving to dry dock.  Almost 26 million
barrels of crude had been spilled.  No people were killed or seriously
injured, but the fishing industry in the sound was disrupted, with the
herring season cancelled, the sable fish and shrimp fisheries closed,
and the salmon hatchery threatened.  The flow of Alaskan oil was cut
by 60 percent for more than one week, returning to the normal flow of
2.1 millions barrels a day on April 5.

The governor of Alaska asked the Coast Guard to take over the clean-up
efforts, but a team from Washington had determined that federal
management was not necessary.  An Exxon spokesman maintained that
Exxon was the best organization to manage the cleanup.  More than
1,000 miles of shoreline were polluted and 1,000 sea otters, 140 bald
eagles, and 36,500 sea birds were killed.  The clean-up operation in
1989 alone involved 12,000 workers, 1,300 vessels and cost Exxon $1.9
billion.  Exxon, Navy and Coast Guard ships were involved.  The 1989
cleanup ended on September 15, but Exxon was ordered to resume the
beach cleanup in May 1990.

The ship's captain, Joseph Hazelwood, was fired on March 30 and later
arrested in New York, extradited to Alaska and charged with various
crimes including operating a vessel under the influence of alcohol.
He had a history of drinking problems.  On March 22, 1990, an Alaskan
jury acquitted Hazelwood of all charges except the negligent discharge
of oil.  The jury appeared swayed by the defense argument that the
incident was an accident, not a crime.  The defense also had argued
that the Coast Guard did not do its job.  Hazelwood was still named in
150 civil lawsuits.

By September 1989, Exxon had paid-out $90 million in damage claims.
Exxon and its subsidiary were indicted on federal criminal charges in
February 1990.  </SUM>
