<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890401-0065"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 

The oil tanker Exxon Valdez, carrying 1.26 million barrels of
north-slope crude oil, grounded on a reef in Alaska's Prince William
Sound at 12:04am local time on March 24.  At 12:28 the Valdez reported
150,000 barrels released.  Two minutes later the Coast Guard closed
Port Valdez.  The ship remained on the reef through high tide and a
one-half mile oil slick was reported at 2:27am.  Coast Guard personnel
boarded the ship and reported 138,000 barrels lost.  At 4:14 the Exxon
Baton Rouge was sent to begin taking the remaining oil off of the
Valdez.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890404-0260"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   
  
Tuesday, the Exxon Valdez crew finished pumping the remaining crude
oil out of the tanker and will attempt to pump air into the hold and
refloat the vessel at high tide Wednesday afternoon.  The tanker will
be moved to a remote cove for emergency repairs.  Exxon is looking for
a dry dock for the final repairs.  Thick oil now covers more than
1,640 square miles of water and 800 miles of beach.  The annual
herring season has been cancelled and the sablefish and shrimp
fisheries closed.  Efforts are underway to protect the salmon
hatchery.  The captain, Joseph Hazelwood, is in New York and
reportedly ready to surrender.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890405-0266"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   
  
Today, the still-leaking Exxon Valdez was refloated and began a
30-mile journey to Naked Island for temporary repairs.  Forty-two
million gallons had been transferred.  Ten million gallons of crude
were spilled, covering 2,600 square miles, soiling 800 miles of beach,
and killing thousands of animals.  The captain has surrendered.  The
flow of Alaskan oil, which had been cut by 60 percent, is returning to
normal.  Exxon, which continues to search for a dry dock for repairs,
has provided money to defend Prince William hatcheries.  Five
U.S. Navy oil skimmers are at work.  One hundred claims and at least
14 lawsuits have been filed against the company.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890406-0216"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
    
The Exxon Valdez was freed Wednesday.  Cleanup crews continue to skim
oil from the Prince William Sound.  The governor of Alaska, writing
that Exxon has been unresponsive, has asked the Coast Guard to take
over the clean-up efforts.  Earlier a team from Washington had
determined that federal management was not necessary.  An Exxon
spokesman maintained that Exxon was the best organization to manage
the cleanup.  Joseph Hazelwood, the fired tanker captain, has
surrendered and bail was set at $1 million bond.  Hazelwood, charged
with misdemeanors, has a history of drinking problems.  The FBI is
investigating bringing felony charges.  The Alaskan pipeline flow
returned to normal Wednesday and Exxon continues to search for a dry
dock.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040689-0056"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
    
The captain of the Exxon Valdez has surrendered and bail is set at
$500,000.  His lawyer has not decided whether to waive extradition to
Alaska.  No people have been killer or seriously injured by the spill,
but the Prince William Sound fishing industry is disrupted and several
thousand birds and hundreds of sea otters are dead.  The quarter of a
million barrel oil slick covers an area the size of Delaware.  Almost
1 million barrels of oil were pumped out of the Valdez.  Exxon
officials will not estimate how long temporary repairs will take.  On
Wednesday, the normal flow of 2.1 millions barrels a day resumed
through the Alaskan pipeline.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890909-0143"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">  
   
Exxon will pull out the last of workers cleaning-up oil from the Exxon
Valdez spill on Wednesday, because of deteriorating weather and
shortening daylight hours.  After treating over 1,000 miles of
shoreline, Exxon claims that only four miles remain untreated.
Government officials disagree.  Alaska is suing oil companies for
negligence in preventing and cleaning-up the spill.  On Saturday
fisherman demonstrated in Port Valdez.  Otter and bird rescue
operations are also shutting down.  More than 32,000 birds and 980
otters died.  The cleanup involved 12,000 workers and 1,300 vessels
and cost more than $1.2 billion.  Exxon has paid $90 million in damage
claims.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA021390-0034"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">   
  
Two Coast Guard technicians testified on Monday that they did not warn
the Exxon Valdez that it had disappeared from radar until the tanker
ran aground on March 24, while detouring around ice in the treacherous
Prince William Sound.  Another loaded tanker had taken a similar
detour around ice four hours earlier without any problems.  The
technicians also admitted that the radar was less than reliable.
Defense lawyers are emphasizing this testimony in the trial of the
Valdez's captain.  The captain faces up to 7 years and 3 months in
jail and a $61,000 fine.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032390-0053"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I">     

Chronology of the Exxon Valdez incident: on March 24, the tanker runs
aground.  March 30, the captain is fired; April 4, spill called the
oil industry's "three mile island;" June 19, oil companies announce
plan for $250 million network of response teams; September 15, beach
cleanup operations suspended for winter; October 27, Exxon resigned
from National Wildlife Federations advisory board.  December 4,
Transportation Secretary announces that cleanup cost Exxon $1.9
billion; December 31, Wildlife officials report 1,000 sea otters, 140
bald eagles and 36,500 seabirds dead; February 27, Exxon and
subsidiary indicted; and March 22, captain found guilty of negligent
discharge of oil.  Exxon was ordered to resume the beach cleanup on
May 1.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900323-0036"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="I"> 
    
On Thursday, an Alaskan jury acquitted former Exxon Valdez captain,
Joseph Hazelwood, of all but a minor pollution charge.  Maximum
penalty could be 90 days in jail and a $1,000 fine.  He was found not
guilty of felony mischief, operating a vessel while under the
influence of alcohol, and reckless endangerment.  Applause greeted the
verdict.  Jurors were swayed by the defense argument that the incident
was an accident, not a crime.  The defense had argued that he drank
between the incident and the sobriety test, and that the Coast Guard
did not do its job.  Exxon Corp still faces federal criminal charges
and Hazelwood is named in 150 civil lawsuits.  </SUM>
