<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA080790-0111"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">   

On 15 March 1988, a narcotics agent and a policeman at Los Angeles
Airport were searching for the companion of a black drug courier
suspect.  When Clayton Searle, the policeman, saw a black man that he
thought would fit this description, he moved forward to question him.
The two men became embroiled in a fight and Searle handcuffed him.

Later, Searle realized that he had falsely arrested Joe Morgan,
retired star infielder of the Cincinnati Reds.

By 7 August, 1990, Morgan was preparing to sue Searle and the City of
Los Angeles for being targeted as a black and for police
profiling.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06191081"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

The beating of black motorist Rodney King by Los Angeles police
officers has brought the formation of a panel to investigate the
department.  The panel, specifically focusing on racism and brutality,
neither blames nor exonerates the department's chief, Daryl Gates.

The panel did uncover racially derogatory messages passed on computer
terminals of police cars.  Black police officers related their
experiences with racial harassment and the existence of double
departmental standards.

One organization said that black and Latino minorities view the Los
Angeles Police as a white, male-dominated organization that has
subjected them to years of brutality and ignored their
complaints.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910710-0148"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

A report by a commission headed by former Deputy Secretary of State
Warren Christopher on the Los Angeles Police Department was issued on
9 July, 1991.  The report, prompted by the videotaped beating of
Rodney King, describes a department riddled by brutality and racism.
It calls for the resignation of its chief, Daryl Gates.

Other highlights of the report include the following:

a. A chief should be limited to two 5-year terms.  b. Departmental
training promotes a siege mentality.  c. A code of silence exists in
regard to community complaints.  d. There is a pattern of acceptance
of officers who violate rules of excessive force.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="FT922-10200"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

In the past, they said that Daryl Gates was the chief of one of the
most brutal and racist police forces in the nation.  In May 1992 he
stands accused of encouraging the violence of rioting and allowing his
police force to do nothing to stop it.  In short, his force was
overwhelmed.  During his tenure, his police force has become
aggressive and insensitive.  It is completely alienated from the
community.  A recent review panel recommended his removal and the
institution of foot patrols as well as the investigation of police
complaints.

Gates has agreed to step down in June 1992.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910405-0154"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

Joseph McNamara is Chief of Police in San Jose, California.  Writing
an article for the Wall Street Journal of 5 April, 1991, he comments
on the videotaped beating of Rodney King by Los Angeles police.
  
McNamara shows that there is a code of silence by other police chiefs.
Racial jokes over police radios indicate it was not "an aberration" as
Chief Daryl Gates of the LAPD claims.

Gates is a racist, says McNamara and invites conflict.  Even his
reaction to the King videotape was defensive.

McNamara calls for a vocal repudiation of Gates' style of policing by
other police chiefs.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06283083"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

The beating of Rodney King by the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD)
has acted as a catalyst for public criticism of this department.  An
independent commission found racism, brutality and other faults within
the LAPD.

Meanwhile, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department escaped adverse
publicity by keeping a low profile--until the occurrence of killings
and robbery by his officers.  The sheriff is resisting change,
believing that his department is a model force.

Some groups believe that nothing will change in the long term in spite
of the need for police reform.  Police cite social ills as the
cause.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA030489-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

On January 14, 1989 a white Long Beach policeman, Dickey, pushed a
black man, Jackson, through a plate glass window after a routine
traffic stop.  The incident was taped by a news team as part of a
sting operation arranged by Jackson, an undercover policeman.  The
objective was to prove charges of racism and brutality by the Long
Beach Police.

Several investigations have begun.  Dickey has discredited his own
report of the incident.

Dickey also hurt Jackson by bending his fingers and refused to loosen
handcuffs.

Jackson told a hearing that he is committed to upholding the law as an
anti-brutality specialist.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA011889-0067"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

On January 18, 1989, the Los Angeles County district attorney's office
was investigating a videotaped account of a Long Beach white policeman
shoving a black man's head and arm through a glass window after a
traffic stop.  The incident happened on 14 January 1989.

The arrested black man was Sgt. Don Jackson of the Hawthorne police
force.  He and a companion, federal corrections officer Jeff Hull,
dressed in shabby clothes and in an old car, set up a sting operation
to prove the abuse of minorities by Long Beach police.  The sting
apparently worked well.  The incident was covered by a van with a
television news team.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890117-0132"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

A black police sergeant, Don Jackson, set up a sting operation against
the Long Beach police in early 1989.  Jackson arranged to have a news
team follow him and a companion in their car through a high crime area
of Long Beach.  The tape shows a white officer searching Jackson with
his hands up, then pushing him through a plate glass window.  The tape
is played before a national audience.
  
Long Beach officials promised an investigation.  Jackson's supervisor
said he was looking for trouble.  Jackson chose the Long Beach police
because of the large number of complaints by minorities.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890930-0100"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

Chicago had undergone two days of hearings on police brutality by 30
September 1989.  A report describing widespread segregation shows that
much work remains to be done on race relations.

The mayor, Richard M. Daley, son of Mayor Richard J. Daley who ruled
Chicago as mayor for 20 years until 1976, was elected to office
promising empowerment to minorities.  He gave 11 of 21 cabinet posts
to minorities.  Blacks charge the police force with brutality,
intimidation, beatings and false arrests.  Lack of contact among the
city's ethnic groups may be one cause.  The black police chief faulted
himself for any failures.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890322-0010"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

Police brutality and racism are terms not usually applied to the
Minneapolis Police Department.  The city prides itself on its
tolerance.

That was not the case during a recent drug raid when two blacks died
and later during a confrontation between blacks and police.

Protesters demanded that the officers involved be suspended and are
calling for a police review board, which the police chief opposes.

A city official stated that police racism has existed for over 21
years despite the public impression of tolerance.

The chief of police said cultural awareness training for his force
would begin in the fall.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP901029-0035"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

Terry Barnes, a 24-year old stockbroker, was shot and killed by police
in his own apartment.  It was another blow against the Kansas City,
Missouri Police Department struggling against charges of racism and
brutality.  Both the victim and the officer are white, although other
incidents have involved black citizens.
  
Other charges against the police have included excessive force and
racism.  One involved a black Roman Catholic priest from Nigeria who
was attacked by police while laying on the ground.  The priest said
officers stopped him on suspicion of drunken driving because they
could not understand his foreign speech.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06129119"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">    

A practicing attorney in Santa Clara recently wrote an item for the
media in which he describes a case of police brutality against a
suspect involved in a high speed chase.

The suspect is caught and brutally mauled by police, although not
resisting arrest.  The brutality is covered up by the police but there
are four witnesses who state otherwise and describe the beating.  The
officer is later arrested and prosecuted.

The article's author mentions the problem of police secrecy in
discipline cases and emphasizes the need across the board for
citizen's review boards to track complaints about the police.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA071590-0068"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">       

Since July, 1988, the Ventura County district attorney's office has
refused to prosecute a number of suspects arrested by police who
contend that they were victims of police brutality and filed charges.
The public defender's office believes that this is a rare occurrence.

Typical was the police response to complaints about a loud party.
Without provocation, police began beating three of the partygoers.
Police arrested one of the men on grounds of resisting arrest and
assaulting an officer.  Later, the latter charge was dropped.

A similar sequence occurred in several other cases.  Reasons for case
dismissals included "lack of evidence."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA010890-0031"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Los Angeles Police, in January 1990, were applying painful techniques
in getting non-violent, anti-abortion protesters to comply.  These
methods, twisting arms, etc., are called "pain compliance" techniques.

Traditional political viewpoints are reversed.  Pro-choice liberals
support the police while anti-abortion republicans voice "police
state" rhetoric.

Protesters complain that police "come along" holds result in serious
injuries and have filed complaints.

The volatility of the abortion issue clouds the way many think about
police use of force.

A police authority says restrictions on pain compliance techniques
will embolden demonstrators.  An opposing view is that using pain
techniques on non-violent demonstrators is barbaric.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d06"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06195131"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="E">     

Police forces in 50 cities in the U.S. have been charged with
brutality and excessive use of force against anti-abortion activists.
Some arrests have led to injury and sexual abuse of women
demonstrators.  Operation Rescue includes mostly Catholic and
Protestant participants.  They do not use force and have instructions
to go limp when being arrested.  They do not appear to have much
public support.

Operation Rescue demonstrators are involved in denying some citizens
their rights.  Perhaps this is the reason why there is some reluctance
on the part of civil rights authorities to pursue police brutality
cases involving Rescue demonstrators.</SUM>
