
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890909-0143 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-09-89 2314EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>u a AM-Exxon-Cleanup 1stLd-Writethru a0535 09-09 1093</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Exxon-Cleanup, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0535,1116</SECOND>
<HEAD>Exxon Prepares For Pullout From Oil Cleanup</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds: INSERTS 3 grafs after 10th, `The state...' to UPDATE with demonstration
in Valdez. Picks up 11th graf pvs, `Crews have...'</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PAUL JENKINS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>POINT HELEN, Alaska (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Thousands of oil-spattered workers
hampered by worsening weather have only a few more days to clean
crude oil off Alaska's petroleum-fouled shoreline before Exxon Corp.
stops work for the season.
   Exxon says it will pull out the last of its workers by this
coming Friday after treating more than 1,000 miles of shoreline
tainted by the nation's worst oil spill. The company claimed
Thursday that only four miles remained to be treated, but state and
federal agencies disagree with Exxon about how much has been cleaned
and how well.
   ``Our position is that the weather is going to make us go
regardless of what the numbers are, regardless of how much is
left,'' said Exxon spokesman Henry Beathard.
   Exxon said it chose Sept. 15 for the withdrawal of the last of
its thousands of workers and hundreds of vessels to avoid
increasingly poor weather and reduced hours of daylight. In this
land where winter comes early, the first dusting of snow can already
be seen in some higher elevations.
   ``We have buses and planes set up for them to leave that day,''
Beathard said. ``They don't have the option to take that free trip
three days later.'' Already, the first fall storm has raked Prince
William Sound, where the tanker Exxon Valdez spilled nearly 11
million gallons of crude oil on March 24. Gusts to 70 mph and 6-to
10-foot seas shut down the Point Helen cleanup operation once. On
Smith Island, a test of a solvent Exxon wants to use to clean oily
shores was delayed for at least four days by the storm.
   Point Helen, one of the last heavily hit shorelines on the
cleanup list, was left untouched until after mid-August to avoid
disturbing a fish hatchery at Sawmill Bay, officials said.
   Weather permitting, the shore will be ``environmentally stable,''
if not clean, by Exxon's deadline, the company said.
   ``I'm quite confident we are going to make it _ if we can just
get a few good days of weather,'' said beachmaster Warren Winstead
of Baton Rouge, La. ``I think if we can get another few days in,
we'll beat it.''
   But the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation and Exxon
dispute just about everything, including how many miles have been
treated, how well the job has been done and whether Exxon plans to
duck out after giving the shore a quick once-over.
   The state has sued Exxon and a half-dozen other oil companies
that get oil from Alaska's North Slope by way of the Alyeska
pipeline, claiming they were negligent in preventing and cleaning up
the spill. The Exxon Valdez was outbound from the pipeline terminal
at Valdez when it ripped its bottom open on a reef.
   On Saturday, environmental and fishing groups took two dozen
boats into Port Valdez for a demonstration demanding greater
protection against oil spills.
   Organizers of the event held with Coast Guard permission said
their main goal was to draw attention to tankers of foreign registry
that travel in and out of the port, terminus of the trans-Alaska oil
pipeline.
   Seven vessels that are registered in Italy, Liberia and Israel
and use the port are not regulated adequately and do not carry
sufficient liability insurance for oil-spill compensation, said
Nancy Lethcoe, vice president of the Prince William Sound
Conservation Alliance and a partner in a local tourism business. The
Coast Guard said a total of 70 tankers use the port.
   Crews have removed gross contamination from many shorelines, but
they remain oily. Exxon claims about 244,000 gallons of oil and
water emulsion have been recovered.
   Exxon, the DEC and the Coast Guard all have different figures for
virtually everything, in part because they use different criteria
for measuring contamination and what constitutes an effective
cleanup. The state agency's figures show Exxon claiming to have
treated more shoreline than was fouled.
   ``We're the only people honest about the numbers,'' said Joe
Bridgeman, a DEC spokesman. ``The numbers are being manipulated to
show great shoreline progress.''
   Exxon officials acknowledged discrepancies. ``I honestly don't
have an adequate explantion,'' said spokesman Karsten Rodvik.
   As the cleanup operation grinds down from its peak of 12,000
workers and 1,300 vessels, Valdez officials are bracing for a
shrunken economy.
   Temporary housing set up by Exxon will close. The Valdez
population likely will plunge from 13,000 to about 4,500.
   Public agencies are getting ready to pare their staffs to winter
levels, although some work will continue. Scientists are studying
the effects of fertilizer spread on test beaches to stimulate the
growth of oil-eating bacteria. Other agencies plan to collect
samples and study the environment during the winter.
   Otter and bird rescue operations are shutting down. More than
32,000 birds and 980 otters died from the spill's effects.
   Exxon has started shipping millions of pounds of equipment to
winter storage in Anchorage, home of its Alaska headquarters.
   State environmental officials say Exxon's withdrawal is premature
and that it should stay on the job as long as the weather permits.
``We don't buy the deadline. We not only want them to come back next
year. We want them to work past Sept. 15,'' Bridgeman said.
   Over the winter Exxon plans to monitor how the shoreline looks.
It has made no commitment to come back next summer but says it will
abide by any reasonable decision of the Coast Guard on whether more
cleanup is necessary.
   The price tag for this summer's cleanup is expected to top $1.2
billion and the effort has become an industry of its own.
   Exxon's spending spree was felt statewide and helped lower
unemployment, said state labor economist Neal Fried. In Valdez and
Cordova, unemployment was about half the previous year's level.
   Exxon has paid more than $90 million in damage claims so far, and
is paying up to $3 million a day, about two-thirds directly to
fishermen who were kept in port by oil-covered water.
   Exxon bought 302,000 pairs of rubber gloves, 167,000 sets of rain
gear, 73,000 pairs of rubber boots, 125,000 coveralls and 53,000
life vests.
   The company said it purchased more than 12 million pounds of
groceries, amounting to 1,000 cows, 360,000 chickens, 1,000 turkeys
and 700 pigs. Washing machines agitated more than 3 million pounds
of laundry, and equipment consumed more than 400,000 gallons of
diesel fuel each week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

