
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890405-0266 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-04-05-89 1527EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>u f PM-TankerSpill 4thLd-Writethru f0167 04-05 0974</FIRST>
<SECOND>PM-Tanker Spill, 4th Ld-Writethru, f0167,1003</SECOND>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<HEAD>Tanker Captain Surrenders; First Attempt At Freeing Tanker Today</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds: LEADS with 5 grafs to UPDATE with tanker refloated. SUBS grafs
15-16, `On Tuesday...' to conform. Also moving on general news wires.</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto VDX1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TAD BARTIMUS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>VALDEZ, Alaska (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Exxon today refloated its still-leaking
oil tanker, whose fugitive captain surrendered a few hours earlier
to face charges of operating the vessel while drunk.
   A judge in Hauppauge, N.Y., set bail at $500,000 for the
captain, 20 times as much as prosecutors had recommended, saying
``we have a manmade destruction that has not been equaled,
probably, since Hiroshima.''
   With claims against Exxon for damages escalating into the
millions, U.S. Navy oil skimmers were pressed into service, and
Exxon accepted an offer of help from the Soviet Union.
   Salvage crews pumped compressed air into the $125 million ship
to float it off Bligh Reef, 25 miles from the port of Valdez. From
there, it began a 30-mile journey under the control of six tugs to
a remote cove off Naked Island for temporary repairs, picking its
way through scattered icebergs.
   The ship was refloated before tide reached its peak Wednesday.
``It was not just a stroke of good luck,'' said Gary Gorski,
Exxon's salvage coordinator. ``It took a lot of hard work.''
   Company officials turned to the Far East in search of a dry dock
willing to accept the crippled leviathan Exxon Valdez.
   As the oil off Alaska spread over 2,600 square miles, an area
larger than the state of Delaware, the fired captain of the tanker
turned himself in this morning to authorities in Hauppauge, N.Y.
   Joseph Hazelwood, who lives on New York's Long Island, appeared
with his attorney 12 days after his ship ran aground and nearly a
week after the National Transportation Safety Board said tests
showed he was under the influence of alcohol several hours after
the accident.
   He had been sought since Sunday on a fugitive warrant for three
misdemeanor charges that carry a penalty of up to 2\ years in jail.
Alaska authorities have said they will seek his extradition.
   Exxon said it has changed its policy because of the spill and
now requires crews to be aboard ship, where drinking is prohibited,
four hours before sailing.
   Oil as thick as mayonnaise has soiled 800 miles of beach,
thousands of animals are known dead, including at least 30 sea
otters.
   ``Dozens of otters are dying before rescuers can get to them,''
said fish and game spokesman Jon Lyman.
   The dead otters included a year-old pup, one of five that had
been sent to San Diego's Sea World for treatment.
   While the toll from the nation's worst oil spill mounted, its
impact on the flow of Alaskan crude was abating.
   The Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. said it would resume a normal
daily flow of 2.1 million barrels of oil through the trans-Alaska
pipeline today. The flow had been cut by 60 percent because of
restrictions on tanker traffic in Valdez harbor, but those
restrictions have eased.
   In the longer turn, though, the spill could slow petroleum
exploration in environmentally sensitive areas at least
temporarily, Environmental Protection Administrator William Reilly
told Congress.
   On Tuesday, crews finished transferring about 42 million gallons
of crude from the crippled tanker to other ships in preparation for
the refloating. The $125 million vessel, one of Exxon's newest, had
been sitting on Bligh Reef in since running aground March 24 and
spilling more than 10 million gallons of crude.
   After that, Exxon said its first choice for dry dock is
Portland, Ore., but officials there said they weren't sure if
they'd allow that, even though the $12 million repair bill would
provide about 200 jobs.
   ``A lot of questions that need to be answered,'' Oregon Gov.
Neil Goldschmidt said.
   Canadian authorities also asked Exxon for assurances that towing
the tanker to Oregon won't damage the British Columbia coast.
   Exxon Shipping Co. President Frank Iarossi said the company has
had discussions with dry docks in South Korea, Japan and Singapore
about accepting the vessel. He said the ship won't trail any
pollution while it is towed.
   Iarossi said Exxon had not added up its costs so far.
``Millions, multiple millions. It's going to be big numbers,'' he
said.
   One hundred claims have been filed with the company for damages,
including 40 on Tuesday alone. The claims have come mostly from
fishermen. Exxon has settled only two so far.
   At least 14 lawsuits have been filed.
   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration estimated
the leading edge of the spill was 100 miles southwest of the tanker
off the Kenai Peninsula. The spill has been pushed away from Kenai
Fjords National Park and the area south of Seward by water flowing
out of Resurrection Bay.
   Fisheries within the sound remained threatened, and the slick
appeared to be oozing slowly toward other Alaskan ports.
   Exxon gave $1 million on Monday to Prince William Sound
Aquaculture Corp. to buy boom to defend hatcheries, said Susan
Ogle, a spokeswoman for the Cordova spill response office.
   Exxon said it has asked the State Department to notify Moscow
that it has accepted a Soviet offer of an oil skimmer. Five of the
U.S. Navy's 18 heavy-duty oil skimmers went into operation Monday,
and Exxon requested the remaining 13.
   The company also said that placing an oil-catching boom around
the ship immediately after the grounding could have touched off a
giant explosion of gases from the oil, although that was not the
reason it took 11 hours to set the first containment line.
   ``The worst thing we could have done early on was try to boom
the vessel. We would have lost the vessel,'' said Iarossi.
   Officials have said boom wasn't placed around the vessel
immediately because the equipment wasn't available in Valdez.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

