
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890406-0216 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-04-06-89 0045EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>u f AM-TankerSpill 4thLd-Writethru f0329 04-06 1080</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Tanker Spill, 4th Ld-Writethru, f0329,1110</SECOND>
<HEAD>Captain Surrenders As Ship Refloating Attempted</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds: LEADS with 8 grafs to CLARIFY that request not formally approved.
Pick up 9th graf, `Although Cowper ...'. Also moved on general news wires.</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhotos MEL1-2; LaserColor MEL3</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID FOSTER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>VALDEZ, Alaska (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The tanker Exxon Valdez was freed
Wednesday from the reef that ripped its hull and spilled more than
10 million gallons of crude oil, and Alaska's governor asked the
Coast Guard to take over the cleanup from Exxon.
   Elsewhere, the captain of the Exxon Valdez surrendered to police
and was ordered held on $1 million bond.
   Cleanup crews continued to skim mayonnaise-thick oil from Prince
William Sound, but progress was slow and the oil had spread over an
area larger than Delaware. The animal death toll rose and salmon
hatcheries remained endangered.
   In Juneau, Alaska Gov. Steve Cowper said he asked Coast Guard
Rear Adm. Edward Nelson Jr. to take over the much-maligned and
slowly progressing cleanup effort from Exxon, and Nelson indicated
he would, although he has not formally approved the request.
   Cowper said the Coast Guard should be better able to handle
coordination and management of the cleanup than Exxon, which he
said was too bureaucratic.
   ``Maybe that's been the problem all along. You need a military
system to get things done,'' the governor said.
   ``We appreciate the efforts of Exxon _ we think they were done
in good faith. But we think there has to be a much more disciplined
management structure,'' Cowper said at a Capitol news conference.
   President Bush earlier had sent a team of high-level officials
to Valdez and determined that federal management of the cleanup
wasn't necessary. Cowper said Coast Guard management is different
from the plan Bush rejected.
   Although Cowper said he didn't want to be ``extremely critical''
of Exxon, a letter sent to the Coast Guard by a state environmental
official said Exxon had been unresponsive.
   ``Exxon has failed to provide ... the information necessary to
make sound planning recommendations regarding the cleanup of oil
and the protection of resources,'' wrote Lynn Kent, chief of the
state Oil and Hazardous Substance Spill Response Section.
   Exxon spokesman Henry Beathard said the company disagreed with
charges it wasn't handling the cleanup properly and thought Exxon
was the best organization to manage the effort.
   ``We gathered all the resources and organized the cleanup. We
think the most effective and efficient way to carry out this
project is (for Exxon) to continue,'' Beathard said.
   Fired tanker captain Joseph Hazelwood, 42, surrendered to police
on New York's Long Island and a judge set bail at $1 million bond
or $500,000 in cash, up from a prosecutor's recommendation of
$25,000. He had been sought since Saturday on a fugitive warrant on
misdemeanor charges of operating the tanker while drunk.
   ``These misdemeanors are of such a magnitude that has never been
equaled, at least in this country,'' Judge Kenneth Rohl said as
Hazelwood was arraigned. ``He's got to think about that. We have a
manmade destruction that has not been equaled, probably, since
Hiroshima.''
   Salvage crews pumped compressed air into the $125 million ship
and floated it off Bligh Reef, 25 miles from the port of Valdez.
From there, it began a 30-mile journey under the control of six
tugs to a remote cove off Naked Island for temporary repairs,
picking its way through scattered icebergs.
   ``No pollution was immediately visible. There's a real good
possibility (oil) sheen will show up, but they're ready for it,''
Coast Guard spokesman Rick Meidt said.
   The ship was refloated at 10:35 a.m., hours before the tide
reached its peak Wednesday.
   ``It was not just a stroke of good luck,'' said Gary Gorski,
Exxon's salvage coordinator. ``It took a lot of hard work.''
   Exxon Shipping Co. President Frank Iarossi said the company has
talked with dry docks in South Korea, Japan and Singapore about
accepting the vessel after the temporary repairs are made.
   First choice is a Portland, Ore., dry dock, Iarossi said, but
Oregon officials have raised concerns about accepting the ship.
Iarossi said the ship won't trail any pollution while it is towed.
   Oil has floated over 2,600 square miles, soiled 800 miles of
beach and killed thousands of animals, including at least 30 sea
otters, officials said.
   ``Dozens of otters are dying before rescuers can get to them,''
said fish and game spokesman Jon Lyman.
   Favorable weather, however, has kept it offshore from a national
park and additional coastline outside Prince William Sound.
   Flow through the Alaskan pipeline returned to its normal daily
flow of 2.1 million barrels Wednesday, the Alyeska Pipeline Service
Co. said. Oil flow from the North Slope had been cut by 60 percent
because the spill restricted tanker traffic in Valdez harbor, but
traffic has increased.
   In Washington, Sen. Alan Cranston and Rep. Mel Levine accused
the federal government of covering up the possibility of a major
spill and the ineffectiveness of cleanup technology. The California
Democrats also asked President Bush to cancel oil leasing off the
California coast pending a review of the program.
   Hazelwood turned himself in with three attorneys in Hauppauge,
N.Y., and was arraigned. His lawyer said he had not decided whether
to waive extradition proceedings and return to Alaska to face the
charges.
   Hazelwood is charged with operating a ship while under the
influence of alcohol, reckless endangerment and negligent discharge
of oil. The charges carry a combined maximum penalty of 2\ years in
prison and a $10,000 fine.
   FBI officials in Washington say they also are investigating
whether Hazelwood could be charged with felony violations of the
Clean Water Act, which prohibits negligent discharge of pollutants
into navigable waters.
   Hazelwood was fired by Exxon a week ago after the National
Transportation Safety Board said tests taken about nine hours after
the disaster showed he was drunk.
   Hazelwood had been arrested twice for drunken driving and had
his license suspended three times. His mother has told The
Associated Press that her son had undergone rehabilitation and that
Exxon was aware of his drinking problem.
   Exxon said it has changed its policy because of the spill and
now requires crews to be aboard ship, where drinking is prohibited,
four hours before sailing.
   One hundred claims have been filed with the company for damages,
including 40 on Tuesday alone. The claims have come mostly from
fishermen. Exxon has settled only two so far. At least 14 lawsuits
have been filed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

