
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880714-0187 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-07-14-88 1759EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>u i AM-Velayati-Excerpts     07-14 0737</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Velayati-Excerpts,0753</SECOND>
<HEAD>Excerpts of Iranian Foreign Minister's Speech</HEAD>
<HEAD>With Airliner-UN Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>UNITED NATIONS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are excerpts of the speech to the
Security Council on Thursday by Foreign Minister Ali-Akbar Velayati
of Iran, delivered in Farsi and translated by the Iranian Mission:
   In the morning of Sunday July 2, 1988, families and friends of
290 passengers and crew said farewell to their loved ones in Tehran
and Bandar Abbas airports _ unaware of the dastardly attack that
awaited them, unaware of the tragic destiny that would be imposed
upon them by a reckless and incompetent naval force led by
aggressive and expansionist policy-makers.
   According to the transcript of the communication between the
pilot and Bandar Abbas tower, before permission for takeoff was
granted the tower asked the pilot to make sure that his transponder
was turned on. Positive response from the pilot was received.
   The plane was flying on a scheduled flight using the
internationally established and published Amber 59 airway that is
used at least 14 times a week, five of which between the same two
airports. The plane was then climbing to the prescribed altitude at
about 320 knots per hour.
   Seconds after the last communication between the plane and the
tower, the plane was targeted by two surface-to-air Standard guided
missiles from USS Vincennes, the most technologically sophisticated
naval ship. ... The plane ws shot when it was at the center line of
Amber 59 airway.
   USS Vincennes had well over 14 minutes _ and not four minutes as
American officials have claimed _ of prior knowledge that the
target was a civilian airliner on a scheduled flight from Bandar
Abbas to Dubai.
   Another story which was fabricated to misguide the international
public opinion was the claim by the United States that the airliner
was not transmitting the appropriate signals.
   Adm. Crowe claimed on July 3, 1988: ``There were electronic
indications on Vincennes that led it to believe that the aircraft
was an F-14.''
   Notwithstanding the fact that the Iranian air force had no F-14
operations in the morning of that unfortunate Sunday in or around
the Strait of Hormuz, it may be noted that the military experts
well-familiar with F-14 and its capabilities have held that F-14
could not have presented any serious danger to the USS Vincennes or
any surface target for that matter.
   F-14 fighters, as it should be known most vividly to the
Americans who made them, are designed for air-to-air attack and not
air-to-surface operations.
   Possibly the most fallacious argument of the American officials
in justifying their inexplicable crime was a claim that the
airliner did not respond to the alleged warnings issued by the
warship.
   While every available evidence including the transcripts read
earlier show that the pilot of the airliner did not receive any
warning, many have contended that in such a short and routine
flight, the pilot was not indeed required to monitor the emergency
civilian frequency.
   Furthermore, because the ship failed to identify the target of
its alleged warnings, the pilot of the airliner of a scheduled
flight should not have reasonably taken it as directed against
himself.
   Finally, the most awkward American explanation for shooting down
a civilian airliner was presented by Adm. Crowe, who claimed that
the plane was coming onto the USS Vincennes in a war zone, while
descending and increasing speed of 450 miles an hour.
   It is necessary to note that the area where the plane was
attacked is well outside the declared war zones of the combatants.
This fact is attested to even by Lloyd's of London.
   The question that needs to be asked is why a warship had
positioned itself right at the center of a civilian airway.
Furthermore, positioning itself right in the middle of an
international civil airway, it is ironic that the ship expected the
plane to go outside of the corridor, not be coming onto the
Vincennes.
   All available evidence suggest(s) that the shooting down of an
Iranian civil airliner ... could not have been a mistake. Certainly
the huge difference in appearance, size, weight, and flight pattern
between an Airbus and those of an F-14, whic is almost a fourth of
the former, would make any claim of mistaken identity absurd.
   Rather, the course of events during that day clearly shows that
the U.S. warships in the area had clear aggressive intentions,
which resulted in the massacre of 290 innocent people.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

