
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP890901-0154 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-09-01-89 2129EDT</FILEID>
<FIRST>r w AM-Vincennes 1stLd-Writethru a0660 09-01 0672</FIRST>
<SECOND>AM-Vincennes, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0660,600</SECOND>
<HEAD>Commander Says Vincennes Tragedy Was Avoidable</HEAD>
<BYLINE>EDS: INSERTS five grafs after 5th pvs, Having watched ..., to give
reaction from Vincennes skipper, description of magazine. ^By BRYNA BRENNAN</BYLINE>
<UNK>Associated Press Writer</UNK>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A naval commander who had observed the USS
Vincennes in the Persian Gulf said the ship had ``no good reason''
for shooting down an Iranian civilian airliner, killing all 290
aboard.
   The unusually candid article by Cmdr. David R. Carlson in the
U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings magazine this month said others had
remarked on the agressive behavior of the Vincennes, which had been
dubbed ``robo cruiser.''
   Carlson, commander of the USS Sides, a frigate that was on the
scene when the USS Vincennes shot down the Airbus on July 3, 1988,
clearly put the blame on actions taken by the ship and disputed any
notion of self-defense.
   ``No profit has come from the pathetic postincident attempts to
place the blame on the victims,'' he wrote. ``View it as you will,
Iran Air Flight 655 was shot down for no good reason.
   ``Having watched the performance of the Vincennes for a month
before the incident, my impression was clearly that an atmosphere of
restraint was not her long suit. Her actions appeared to be
consistently aggressive, and had become a topic of wardroom
conversation.''
   Capt. Will Rogers, skipper of the Vincennes at the time, said
Carlson's assessment was subjective and not in line with the Navy's
conclusions.
   ``The Navy investigated the events of July 3, 1988, in
excruciating detail and published its findings in the Fogarty
Report,'' Rogers said in a statement issued by the Navy in San
Diego, where he is stationed.
   ``Commander Carlson's comments in the magazine article are his
personal opinions of the Airbus incident,'' he said. ``I fully stand
behind the Navy report and the performance of my crew.''
   Navy spokesman David L. Dillon in San Diego said that the
magazine is not part of the Navy.
   ``It's published by the Naval Institute, a private self-supported
non-profit professional society and it's a forum for people to
express personal opinions and assertions in various articles related
to Navy issues, but the Naval Institute is not part of the U.S.
government, so his comments are his own personal opinion,'' he said.
   Carlson suggests the crew of the Vincennes wanted to prove the
capability of the ship's Aegis missile-defense system in the Persian
Gulf.
   On the day of the incident, Carlson said, a crewman informed him
that the Vincennes had classified the plane as an Iranian F-14
fighter.
   ``I was also prepared to deal with an air threat, but in all
honesty did not perceive one,'' Carlson said.
   According to Carlson, the event started with the Vincennes'
helicopter drawing fire from Iranian speedboats, which he claims
were only warning shots.
   ``The Vincennes saw an opportunity for action, and pressed hard
for Commander Middle East Force to give permission to fire,''
Carlson said.
   ``The tragedy was avoidable, and we must learn from it,'' he said.
   ``A review of the facts is in order,'' Carlson wrote. ``When the
decision was made to shoot down the Airbus, the airliner was
climbing, not diving; it was showing the proper identification
friend or foe ... The Vincennes was never under attack by Iranian
aircraft.''
   A naval investigator told Congress last September that a series
of errors caused by stress, including misinterpreting electronic
data, caused the mistaken attack on the airliner.
   Rear Adm. William M. Fogarty, who headed the Navy's investigating
team, said the captain of the Vincennes, Will Rogers III, ordered
the ship's missiles fired in the mistaken belief the airliner was an
Iranian F-14 fighter plane.
   Carlson, in his article, puts some of the blame on himself.
   ``I wondered aloud in disbelief, but I did not do the one thing
that might have helped,'' he wrote. ``I did not push for a
reevaluation.
   ``Had I done so, the information might have come forward quickly
enough to allow me to attempt to dissuade the Vincennes from
shooting.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>

