<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ880617-0024"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">           

The mid-west's worsening drought is hurting what started as one of the
most optimistic farm years in the last eight.  Although crop prices
are now soaring on weather-worries, yields may be so low that many
farmers will not do well.  All farm related industries such as
bankers, exporters, realtors, investors and equipment manufactures may
be affected.  Inflation concerns are driving stock and bond prices
lower.  Nationwide, pasture conditions are the worst they have been
since 1934.  The government has authorized hay mowing on Conservation
Reserve Program lands, but warns that it may have to curb its
agriculture "export enhancement" program because supplies are
unpredictable.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880630-0295"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

The Agriculture Department has been monitoring the drought situation,
setting up hotlines for worried callers and issuing informational
statements called the "USDA Backgrounder" listing the department's
"drought-related actions".  A reporter pointed out that only two
action items involved money expenditure, meat purchases for school
cafeterias and credit for Mexico to buy meat.  The purchases will help
livestock markets now depressed by drought-induced liquidation of
herds.  The other significant action is government permission for
affected farmers to harvest hay or allow cattle to graze on government
set aside reserve or conservation lands. The "Backgrounders" will be
updated every two weeks.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880714-0142"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

The National Weather Service reports that in early July, 29 percent of
the nation was undergoing severe or extreme drought.  The drought has
expanded eastward from the Rockies into the Great Lakes, Ohio and
Tennessee Valleys, and into the Mid-Atlantic states.  This drought is
about equivalent to that of 1911, but less severe than those of the
1930s or 1956.  However, in the Midwest, large areas have experienced
the driest April- June period since 1895.  The 30-day weather forecast
offers little hope for improvement.  Portions of the Mississippi
Valley have some relief due to recent rains, as have portions of
Texas.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880811-0299"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

President Reagan signed a $3.9 billion disaster relief bill aimed at
helping drought- stricken farmers.  Harvests of corn, wheat, soybeans,
oats, barley and sorghum are predicted to be down 24 to 45 percent
from last year.  They may only reach 88 percent of 1977 levels, the
Agriculture Department's standard of comparison.  However, because of
large pre-season stocks, total supplies are enough in most cases to
assure adequate food supplies for home and foreign customers and to
meet our food-aid commitments.  The department predicts food price
increases this year of 3 to 5 percent, up from the pre- drought
expectations of 2 to 4 percent.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881222-0119"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

Meteorologists often attribute the 1988 drought in North America to
the northward displacement of the jet stream, which similarly
displaced northward the storms that track along its path.  However,
researchers from the National Center for Atmospheric Research in
Boulder, Colo., and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration in Camp Springs, Md. say that what we should know is
why the jet stream was displaced northward.  They say the shift was
caused by temperature abnormalities near the equator in the Pacific.
If their computer models hold true and such weather abnormalities can
be predicted, then perhaps we can also predict droughts.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891210-0079"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

An investigation revealed that the record $3.9 billion drought relief
program of 1988, hailed as salvation for devastated small mid-western
grain farmers, became an unexpected election-year windfall for
thousands of unintended farmers.  The bill was broadened by Congress
to include hail, then floods, next heat, and eventually, insects,
sand, wind, cold and fungus.  Farmers in non-drought areas such as
California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Maryland, New Jersey
and Massachusetts benefited.  Nevertheless, the program did provide
crucial assistance where needed, particularly in hard-hit North
Dakota, where an estimated $1.1 million drought loss was cut by 36
percent to $706 million.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP891213-0004"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

An Associated Press study of the federal $3.9 billion drought relief
program shows that the aid really did help those most in need.  North
Dakota, the nation's most agriculturally dependent state, received
$410.2 million, about 10.5 percent of the total package.  The money
not only helped rescue more than 49,000 farmers, it may also have kept
the state afloat.  The trickle-down effect of those payments reduced
statewide losses to businesses, banks and households from $3.4 billion
to $2.1 billion.  The aid program was also critical to Iowa, Illinois,
Minnesota, and Wisconsin.  These five states received nearly half of
the allocated assistance.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d50"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900910-0020"
SELECTOR="I"
SUMMARIZER="B">   

The latest analysis of the effects of the 1988 drought done by the
Agriculture Department indicates that the drought wasn't as bad as it
might have been.  Crop yields plummeted, but commodity prices rose.
So it was not too bad for those who eked out some production or had
grain stored from previous years.  Higher market prices helped reduce
the direct payments to farmers under USDA's commodity programs.
Despite the drought, farms in all areas of the country continued to
improve their solvency position in 1988 and the number of farms
considered financially vulnerable continued to decrease in both
drought and non-drought areas.</SUM>
