<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042490-0142"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">  

Publicists for Elizabeth Taylor reported she is at St. John's Medical
Center with pneumonia and is being treated with antibiotics.  She was
transferred there from another hospital after a sinus infection
worsened into pneumonia.

Miss Taylor had near-fatal pneumonia in 1961; at that time a
tracheotomy was performed to help her breathe.

She has suffered health problems since a fall from a horse at age 13
caused back problems.  In 1983 she acknowledged a 35-year addiction to
pain and sleeping medications and has been treated for alcohol and
drug abuse at the Betty Ford Clinic at Rancho Mirage.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042190-0060"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

The Los Angeles County district attorney's office declined Friday to
press charges against Elizabeth Taylor's physicians for allegedly
overprescribing pain-killers.  They said the investigation was ended.
  
While agreeing that their treatment fell below medical standards,
authorities said the doctors had also attempted alternative means of
dealing with the addiction, and treatment was "...devoid of criminal
intent."

The report said one physician had tried repeatedly to persuade Miss
Taylor to enter a rehabilitation facility but that she refused until
October of 1988.

Miss Taylor, 58, has admitted to a 35-year addiction to sleeping and
pain-killing medication and has been treated at the Betty Ford
clinic.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900419-0121"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Elizabeth Taylor, who is seriously ill with pneumonia at St. John's
Hospital, underwent a lung biopsy Monday to determine the pneumonia's
cause.  She is now stabilizing in the intensive care unit, her
breathing assisted by a ventilator.

She was hospitalized at Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital on April 9 with
a sinus infection, and moved to St. John's April 16 after developing
pneumonia.

Miss Taylor, who won Oscars for "Butterfield 8" and "Who's Afraid of
Virginia Woolf?"  has had back problems since a fall from a horse in
1945.  She has acknowledged addictions to pain and sleeping pills and
treatment for alcohol and drug abuse.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900426-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Elizabeth Taylor's physician says she has rallied from pneumonia and
is out of danger and off the ventilator.  Dr. Bernard Weintraub said,
however, she is still in serious condition and remains in intensive
care.

A large crowd of reporters, cameramen and employees gathered at the
hospital to get news of Miss Taylor.
  
Taylor's health problems began with a fall from a horse in 1945, and
she suffered a near- fatal bout of pneumonia in 1961, requiring a
tracheotomy.

Her other health problems included addiction to pain-killers and
sleeping pills.  Her doctor denies she has either cancer or
AIDS.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042790-0205"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Elizabeth Taylor always draws intense scrutiny, especially when she is
ill.  Her current bout with pneumonia has drawn another flurry of
interest as she recovers at St. John's Hospital with her four children
in attendance.

At a press conference Wednesday, her doctors denied that she has
either AIDS or cancer.
  
Her life has been one of extremes: great career success and fame but
seven failed marriages and bouts of poor health.

However, she has exhibited bravery and candor as she battled back
problems, operations, bronchitis, pneumonia, and addictions to pain
and sleep medications, food and alcohol.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900511-0159"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Elizabeth Taylor's doctors reported today that she will require about
six more weeks hospitalization due to bacterial pneumonia and a yeast
infection, requiring intravenous therapy for about a month.

She is reportedly out of intensive care and tolerating therapy well.
She previously had viral pneumonia and came close to death last month.

Bacterial pneumonia is responsive to antibiotics, unlike viral
pneumonia.

The present problems began with a sinus infection on April 9 with
admission to Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital; worsening, she was
transferred to St. John's.

Miss Taylor is in a suite at St. John's.  Visitors included her four
children and Michael Jackson.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051190-0185"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Liz Taylor has suffered a relapse and will remain at St. John's
Hospital for six more weeks.

She was near death in April with viral pneumonia.

Miss Taylor's recovery has been complicated by a newly acquired
bacterial pneumonia and yeast infection "...secondary to her stay at
St. John's Hospital and Health Center," doctors said.  They said the
pneumonia is resolving and she is improving.

She has also developed a fungemia (a fungus infection in the blood)
called Candida Albicans which will require six weeks of intravenous
therapy.

Bacterial pneumonia is treatable with antibiotics, thus is considered
less serious than viral pneumonia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900512-0038"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">               

Elizabeth Taylor has developed bacterial pneumonia and a yeast
infection after a five-week hospital stay for viral pneumonia.  Her
doctors say she will require six more weeks of hospital treatment and
intravenous therapy to deal with these complications.

They revealed that she was near death on April 22 from the viral
infection.  They explained that bacterial pneumonia often follows
viral pneumonia.  She is improving significantly, they added.
  
Earlier her publicist had reported she would be released soon.

Miss Taylor, a two-time Oscar winner, was admitted to Daniel Freeman
Marina Hospital on April 9th with sinusitis, but transferred to
St. John's after developing pneumonia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910529-0003"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Elizabeth Taylor and the National Enquirer have settled Miss Taylor's
lawsuit against the tabloid.
  
The suit was brought after a June, 1990, article in the Enquirer
alleged that Miss Taylor was drinking during her hospital stay last
year.

The Enquirer has admitted that its information was in error and has
apologized for the article describing Miss Taylor's condition and
activities.

The attorney for Miss Taylor would not divulge the amount of the
settlement but was persuaded it was adequate to forego going to trial.

Miss Taylor says she feels "completely vindicated," and that the
Enquirer acted "promptly and in good faith."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900424-0035"
SELECTOR="D" 
SUMMARIZER="K">             

Liz Taylor, admitted last week to St. John's Hospital with pneumonia,
is breathing with assistance of a ventilator after surgery to
determine her pneumonia's cause.  She is listed in serious condition
in the ICU; however, her doctors say she is stabilizing.  Biopsy
results are expected Thursday.
  
Her four children are with her.

Explaining the biopsy, pulmonary experts said it's the best way to get
at the cause when a patient is not responding to antibiotics;
appropriate treatment can then be prescribed.
  
Miss Taylor had near-fatal pneumonia in 1961.  She has suffered health
problems for years, including back problems, addictions to painkillers
and alcohol and drug abuse.</SUM>
