<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="LA012590-0174 LA040689-0056 LA032789-0038 AP890325-0029
AP890325-0143 AP890404-0260 LA043089-0197 AP890326-0081 LA032589-0044
AP900323-0036 LA040789-0051 AP900313-0191 AP890501-0176 AP890502-0205"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">    

On March 24, 1989, the Exxon Valdez ran aground in Prince William
Sound, Alaska, and spilled 11.3 million gallons of crude oil.
Emergency operations began that day and national clean-up and
investigation teams arrived over the next two days.  A disaster area
was declared.  Exxon fired the ship's captain on March 30.  By April
3, the herring season was cancelled and gasoline prices began to rise
in California.  On April 5, the Valdez was refloated and the flow of
oil in the trans-Alaskan pipeline returned to normal.  The slick then
covered an area the size of Delaware, with the oil reaching the Kenai
Fjords National Park by April 6 and Katmai National Park by May 1.  A
boycott of Exxon began on April 2 and officials called for
investigations of the gasoline prices.  Clean-up operations stopped on
September 15, with 117 miles of beach still oily.  In January 1990,
Exxon announced that the spill cost almost $2 billion and its 1989 net
earnings were down.  In February, a grand jury indicted Exxon on
criminal charges.  The captain of the Exxon Valdez was found guilty in
March of negligent discharge of oil.  Exxon was ordered to resume the
cleanup on May 1.</SUM>
