<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032589-0044"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">

At 12:30 am, the Exxon Valdez, a 987-foot tanker owned by the Exxon
Shipping Co., ran aground on a reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound.
The tanker reportedly was spilling 10,000 barrels of oil an hour, but
the leak had become a trickle by 2:30 pm.  Exxon reported that three
planes had been dispatched to the scene, another tanker was attempting
to pump out the remaining oil, and floating oil booms would be in
place by late afternoon.  Alaska Governor Cowper arrived in the
afternoon to evaluate the spill, which threatens wildlife and the
fishing and recreation industries.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0029"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

The largest oil spill in U.S. history, 11.3 million gallons, occurred
early Friday when the Exxon Valdez ran aground on Bligh Reef in Prince
Williams Sound, Alaska.  The ship had loaded 1.2 million barrels of
oil at the marine terminal at Valdez and was en route to Long Beach,
California.  The terminal was closed on Friday and the flow in the
trans- Alaska pipeline was reduced to 800,000 barrels, from 1.2
million barrels a day.  The area relies on the oil, tourism, and
fishing industries.  The black cod season begins April 1 and herring
fishing begins mid-April.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890325-0143"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

On Saturday, more than 10 millions gallons of crude oil had created a
slick 7 miles wide in Prince William Sound.  The cleanup equipment at
the site was declared inadequate.  Divers said they had found six to
eight holes in the hull of the Exxon Valdez.  Operations to move the
remaining oil into the Exxon Baton Rouge were delayed while a boom, to
contain leaks, was placed around the two tankers.  The tanker's
captain and two crewmen were subpoenaed.  Four Coast Guard's
strike-team members arrived also on Saturday.  National Transportation
Safety Board investigators are expected on Sunday to begin the
accident probe.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890326-0081"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

On Sunday, the Exxon Shipping Co. said that the third mate was in
command of the Exxon Valdez and the captain was not on the bridge when
it ran aground on Friday.  The clean-up efforts were continuing, while
an Exxon claims officer met with fishermen.  The governor of Alaska
declared Prince William Sound a disaster area.  More than 4 miles of
floating boom were in place and skimming boats were working.  One
hundred square miles are estimated to be affected.  The transfer of
oil to a second tanker resumed late Saturday and is expected to take
six days.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA032789-0038"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

On Sunday, Exxon Shipping Co. said an unqualified mate was piloting
the Exxon Valdez before it ran aground.  The tanker hit a rock outside
shipping lanes then slid about two miles hitting more underwater
rocks.  Ten sizable holes were found in the hull.  Also on Sunday, the
team for the National Transportation Safety Board arrived.  Experts
from an international bird rescue center set up a rehabilitation
center and otter experts are due to arrive tomorrow.  Today, high
winds are expected to hit the tanker, which still had 1 million
barrels of oil on board.  Exxon has promised an organized cleanup
plan.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890404-0260"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

Tuesday, Exxon said it had finished transferring about 42 million
gallons of crude from the grounded Exxon Valdez.  Crews will attempt
to refloat the tanker on Wednesday.  After a brief stop for repairs,
Exxon intends to take the ship to dry dock in the Far East or
Portland, Oregon.  The captain, accused of operating a ship under the
influence of alcohol, among other things, wants to surrender.  On
Monday, Alaska canceled the herring season for this year.  Other
fisheries in Prince William waters are also closed.  Efforts to save a
salmon hatchery appear to be failing.  Gas prices rose sharply in
California.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040689-0056"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

The captain of the Exxon Valdez surrendered to police in New York City
on Wednesday.  He had been fired after being found to be legally
drunk.  The 240,000-barrel slick is now estimated to be affecting an
area the size of Delaware, with only 5% of the crude picked up so far.
Alaska has condemned Exxon's cleanup efforts.  The refloat of the
Valdez went well.  The Port of Valdez was closed at 10:00 am and will
remain closed until the Valdez anchors near Naked Island for temporary
repairs.  The flow of oil in the Alaskan pipeline returned to normal
on Wednesday.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA040789-0051"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

Thursday, Alaska Governor Cowper threatened to close the trans-Alaska
pipeline unless oil companies using the pipeline improve safety
measures and cleanup planning.  This closure would worsen supply
problems in the United States and hurt Alaska, which gets 85% of its
revenue from oil.  Exxon said the third mate turned the autopilot off
before the Valdez ran aground.  The oil spill made it to Kenai Fjords
National Park on Thursday.  The Valdez captain was released on bail in
New York and ordered to appear on May 5 for a hearing on extradition
to Alaska, where he is charged with three misdemeanors.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA043089-0197"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

The Coast Guard confirmed on Saturday that oil continues seeping from
the Exxon Valdez and a complete cleanup is impossible.  It probably
will not be moved for at least a month.  Exxon reported that it has
paid $500,000 to 150 fishermen on lost work claims and is processing
another 300 claims.  In Juneau, the state Senate passed six bills
reacting to the Valdez disaster.  These bills involved the state's
spill-response capabilities, plans and funding; increased fines for
spill damage; and created a commission to investigate the Valdez
spill.  It is unlikely that the House can act before adjourning on May
9.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890501-0176"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

On Monday, Exxon released a revised plan for the cleanup of the
largest U.S. oil spill.  The tainted shores are divided into four
categories, from the most polluted to "lightly oiled".  The worst
areas would be targeted immediately and other areas gradually cleaned
before September 15.  The Coast Guard is reviewing the plan.  The
damage has spread some 500 miles from Valdez into Katmai National Park
and threatens bears and whales.  Several groups called for a boycott
Tuesday of Exxon products and attorneys general of three states called
for a federal investigation of gasoline prices which rose sharply
after the tanker accident.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890502-0205"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

Rallies on Tuesday highlighted the boycott against Exxon.  The company
said that it was too early to tell if it was having any impact.  The
Coast Guard criticized Exxon's clean- up plans the same day, saying
they lacked specifics.  The U.S. Secretary of Transportation said he
expects the clean-up operation to double or triple by the end of the
month and that the cleanup will add $100 to $500 million to Alaska's
economy.  State and federal officials are calling for an investigation
into the rapid rise of gasoline prices.  The head of Exxon said it was
naive to think his company caused this rise.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA012590-0174"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

On Wednesday, Exxon announced its net earnings for 1989 at $3.8
billion, down from $5.26 billion in 1988.  This drop came even though
revenue was up $7.5 billion and was attributed to the financial effect
of the Exxon Valdez oil spill.  The cleanup cost $1.38 billion in 1989
and Exxon expects to spend another $500 million.  Exxon still must
reimburse Alaska, the U.S. Coast Guard, and other federal
organizations.  Exxon stock fell by 12.5 cents, closing at $47 a
share.  Its poor performance will probably continue with the bad
publicity accompanying the spill and the trial of the ship's
captain.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900313-0191"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

Almost a year after the Exxon Valdez oil spill, oil still covers the
beaches of Prince William Sound.  When Exxon suspended its cleanup
operations on September 15, between 50 and 75% of the oil still was in
the water, on the ocean floor, or on the beaches.  Thousands of sea
otters and seabirds were killed.  An October survey showed 117 miles
of beach moderately or heavily oiled. Exxon said no species was wiped
out, but the U.S. Fish and Wildlife officials say it could take 75
years to restore some of the bird colonies.  All parties appear to be
headed to court.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d32"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900323-0036"
SELECTOR="F"
SUMMARIZER="I">       

Chronology surrounding the Exxon Valdez oil spill: March 24, the
tanker runs aground; March 30, the captain is fired; June 19, oil
companies announce plan for $250 million network of response teams;
September 15, beach cleanup operations suspended for winter; October
10, Alaska warns against eating shell fish from the area; December 4,
Transportation Secretary announces that cleanup cost Exxon $1.9
billion; December 31, 1,000 sea otters, 140 bald eagles and 36,500
seabirds reported dead; February 27, Exxon and subsidiary indicted;
and March 22, captain found guilty of negligent discharge of oil.
Exxon was ordered to resume the beach cleanup on May 1.</SUM>
