<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248 WSJ910702-0086 SJMN91-06184003 SJMN91-06184088
WSJ911016-0124 WSJ911016-0126 SJMN91-06290185 WSJ911011-0071
WSJ910910-0071 SJMN91-06254192 WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">   

When in June 1991 President Bush nominated black conservative Clarence
Thomas to replace black liberal Justice Thurgood Marshall on the
Supreme Court, he drew the support of most Republicans and the
opposition of most Democrats in the Senate.  Thomas had a record of
strong opposition to affirmative action, but otherwise his views on
key issues were unknown. His position on affirmative action worried
civil rights groups while his Catholic education and intention at one
time to enter the priesthood worried abortion-rights groups.

Senate Judiciary Committee members split on whether Thomas should be
required to answer specific questions on such key questions as Roe
v. Wade. Finally the committee deadlocked 7-7 and referred the
nomination to the Senate without recommendation only to recall the
nominee later to investigate charges that Thomas had subjected
Professor Anita Hill to sexual harassment when she worked for him in
earlier years.  Thomas categorically denied Hill's charges. After
sometimes lurid testimony that failed to determine who was telling the
truth, the nomination was referred back to the Senate where Thomas was
narrowly confirmed 52-48. Thomas, who thus assumed his position with a
tarnished reputation is the youngest member of the court and is
expected to remain there for decades.  </SUM>

