<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248 WSJ910702-0086 SJMN91-06184003 SJMN91-06184088
WSJ911016-0124 WSJ911016-0126 SJMN91-06290185 WSJ911011-0071
WSJ910910-0071 SJMN91-06254192 WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  
 
In June 1991, President Bush nominated Clarence Thomas, a black
conservative and strong opponent of affirmative action to replace
Thurgood Marshall, the court's first black justice, a civil-rights
pioneer and stalwart liberal. Conservatives embraced the nomination
while liberals were cautious or hostile. Thomas's views on issues
other than affirmative action were unknown, but abortion-rights groups
were suspicious of Thomas's education in Catholic schools and his
intention at one time to enter the priesthood.

Thomas, raised by his grandfather in segregated Georgia, learned the
lessons of hard work, personal dignity and self-sufficiency. At Holy
Cross Thomas joined the Black Power movement and became "political and
radical." At Yale Law School he was exposed to the brilliant arguments
of conservative law professors and the work of an eminent conservative
black economist. Thomas has explained that he never gave up his
grandfather's ideals and when his left-wing opinions began to clash
with those ideals, he moved away from the left. After graduation from
Yale Law School Thomas served in a variety of state and federal
positions establishing a record as an opponent of affirmative action
and a proponent of personal strength over dependence and individualism
over government activism. He had been a judge on the U.S. Court of
Appeals for little more than a year when nominated for the Supreme
Court.

In the Senate Judiciary Committee some of the Democrats wanted to hear
Thomas's views on specific issues while Republicans considered such
questioning prejudicial to an impartial court. The committee
deadlocked 7-7 and referred the nomination to the Senate without
recommendation. The Judiciary Committee, however, recalled the nominee
to answer charges from Professor Anita Hill that she had suffered
sexual harassment while working with Thomas. Thomas vigorously denied
Hill's claims.

The televised Judiciary Committee hearings involved lurid testimony
and failed to prove who was telling the truth. The nomination was
referred back to the Senate where Thomas was narrowly confirmed by a
vote of 52-48. There was speculation as to how the excruciating ordeal
of the hearings might affect Thomas's future decisions.  Thomas said
that nothing could give him back his good name. A legal commentator
who had earlier supported Thomas said the Senate should have rejected
Thomas since the charges against him had not been disproved and the
Supreme Court must be above suspicion.

As the youngest Supreme Court Justice, Thomas is expected to remain on
the court for decades.  </SUM>
