<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06187248"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
    
Clarence Thomas, black nominee to the Supreme Court, comes from a
childhood in segregated Georgia where he was taught the ethic of hard
work, self discipline, and independence. He went north to college at
Holy Cross. By the time he entered Yale Law School he was described as
a freewheeling liberal. Brilliant conservative law professors and the
writings of a conservative black economist had a profound influence on
Thomas.  In his service in various state and federal positions and on
the U.S. Court of Appeals he has been a proponent of personal strength
over dependence and individualism over government activism.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910702-0086"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
President Bush's nomination of conservative black federal judge
Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court invites a vigorous fight in the
Senate. Although Thomas is smart, tough and speaks powerfully about
overcoming racism and poverty in the deep south, his strong opposition
to affirmative action raises questions with liberals. Thomas regards
affirmative action as patronizing and an ineffective remedy for
discrimination. Although Thomas has not committed himself on the issue
of abortion, abortion-rights groups are likely to be concerned about
the fact that Thomas is Catholic and once considered entering the
priesthood. There is also the issue of Thomas's very limited judicial
experience.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184003"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

On Monday President Bush nominated Clarence Thomas, a conservative
black Republican, to replace black liberal Justice Thurgood Marshall
on the Supreme Court.  Conservatives quickly embraced the nomination
while liberals responded either with caution or hostility. Aside from
his strong opposition to affirmative action, Thomas's views on other
major issues before the court are unknown. Although Thomas attended
Roman Catholic schools and studied for the priesthood and the Catholic
Church vigorously opposes abortion, Thomas has apparently never taken
a public stand on abortion or the constitutional right to privacy. If
Thomas remains silent on these issues his nomination is likely to be
confirmed.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06184088"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A"> 
 
Senate Democrats today pledged to examine the views of Supreme Court
nominee Clarence Thomas on abortion and other divisive issues while
Republicans supported the nominee and defended his right to remain
silent on issues that might come before the court. Civil rights groups
raised questions about Thomas's record as chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunities Commission and said the fact that he was
African-American should not be an excuse for ignoring his civil rights
record. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to begin
confirmation hearings in September. Thomas, an unabashed conservative,
would succeed the court's leading liberal and first and only black
justice.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911016-0124"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Yesterday the Senate confirmed Judge Thomas by a narrow 52 to 48 vote.
There is much speculation as to how the excruciating ordeal of the
hearings might affect the decisions of the associate justice
concerning such issues as abortion, sexual harassment, separation of
powers, free press, and the rights of accused.  A conservative legal
commentator who earlier supported the nominee now says the Senate
should have rejected Thomas since the accusations against him were not
disproved and the Supreme Court must be above suspicion. Thomas
himself told the Judiciary Committee that nothing could give him back
his good name.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911016-0126"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

The real battle over the confirmation of Clarence Thomas was joined
four years ago with the nomination of Robert Bork, but the roots of
the struggle go back even farther to the election of Ronald Reagan as
president in 1980. The voters gave Reagan a mandate but the losers
overturned the results of the election by engineering Bork's
rejection. This time Washington's reporters tried to arrange a
national referendum on sexual harassment thinking this would defeat
Thomas. But by every measure available the public gave Thomas
landslide support and Thomas is the first Justice to sit on the
Supreme Court with a popular mandate.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06290185"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Despite lurid charges of sexual harassment, Clarence Thomas has won
confirmation by a 52-48 vote, the closest for a Supreme Court Justice
in more than a century. The Senate vote followed a 7-7 deadlock in the
Judiciary Committee where Thomas vehemently denied charges by Law
Professor Anita Hill. Eleven Democrats joined 41 Republicans to
produce the slim majority. President Bush congratulated Thomas and
called him "a wonderful inspiration," but the Women's Legal Defense
Fund said,"...the Senate sacrificed the integrity of the Supreme
Court... to the Bush-Reagan agenda." As the youngest Supreme Court
Justice, Thomas is expected to remain on the court for decades. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ911011-0071"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

This morning Judge Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill will appear before
the Senate Judiciary Committee. The session will challenge many
involved in the hearings. Thomas must avoid seeming evasive and
convincingly argue that he did nothing to justify Ms. Hill's
accusations. She must explain why she stuck with Thomas after the
purported incidents.  President Bush faces criticism that he is
insensitive to difficulties faced by working women.  Democratic
Senators must show that they are seriously considering Ms. Hill's
charges while trying to get at the truth and not just at Thomas. The
Republicans want to support Thomas without seeming to wink at sexual
harassment.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910910-0071"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Opponents of the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court
maintain that the nominee should be required to answer specific
questions about his personal and philosophical beliefs. Yet the
justice whom the nominee would replace took a firm stand against
answering just such questions at his hearings in 1967. Thurgood
Marshall said "A judge is not permitted to use his own personal views
under any circumstances." At those hearings Senator Edward Kennedy
stressed a central point both in the committee room and before the
full Senate: The Senate is to assess qualifications; it is not to
examine political or judicial philosophy.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06254192"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Clarence Thomas, black conservative nominated to replace Justice
Thurgood Marshall, went before the Senate Judiciary Committee today
with the committee sharply divided as to whether or not the nominee
should be quizzed on his views on specific issues which might affect
decisions. Democrats Biden, Kohl, Kennedy, Leahy, and Metzenbaum
indicated that they would probe for Thomas's thinking on natural law,
abortion, privacy, civil rights, affirmative action, his attitude
towards Congress and other subjects. Republicans Thurmond and Hatch
warned of asking inappropriate questions while President Bush asked
lawmakers to "preserve the independence of the court" by avoiding
asking the nominee how he would vote.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910702-0078"
SELECTOR="A"
SUMMARIZER="A">  

Black conservative Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas was raised by
his grandfather with an ethic of hard work, personal dignity and
self-sufficiency. When he entered law school he was a black power
activist, but, he says, he never gave up his grandfather's ideals, and
when his left-wing opinions began to clash with those ideals, he moved
away from the left. He calls for finding solutions to our social
problems "through independence, perseverance and integrity."
"Basically the job of a judge is to figure out what the law says, not
what he wants it to say." An associate says, "he is a bright and
reflective man who believes passionately in fairness."  </SUM>
