
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP881031-0063 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-10-31-88 0907EST</FILEID>
<FIRST>r i PM-Anderson-Chronology     10-31 0879</FIRST>
<SECOND>PM-Anderson-Chronology,0916</SECOND>
<HEAD>Chronology of Terry Anderson's Captivity</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Lebanon-Hostages</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a chronology of the captivity of
Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated
Press. He is one of 14 foreign hostages, including nine Americans,
missing and believed held in Lebanon.
   1985
   March 16 _ Anderson abducted on Beirut street. Telephone caller
says Islamic Jihad kidnapped him as part of ``continuing operations
against America and its agents.''
   May 16 _ First photo of Anderson in captivity released. Islamic
Jihad warns of ``catastrophic consequences'' if Kuwait does not
free alleged terrorists.
   Sept. 9 _ Rev. Benjamin Weir, another Islamic Jihad captive,
freed after 16 months in captivity. President Reagan says he ``will
not be satisified'' until remaining Americans also are released.
   Oct. 29 _ Beirut television stations broadcast videotaped
birthday message from relatives and friends to Anderson.
   Nov. 8 _ In an open letter, Anderson and three other American
captives held by Islamic Jihad call on Reagan to ``have mercy'' and
negotiate with kidnappers. All four hostages are allowed to write
to their families. Another letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury
appeals for Terry Waite to mediate with Islamic Jihad.
   1986
   Feb. 15 _ Anderson's father, Glenn R. Anderson, dies of cancer
at age 69.
   June 7 _ Anderson's 46-year-old brother, Glenn Richard Jr., dies
of cancer four days after making a videotape from his bed appealing
to Terry's captors.
   July 26 _ Rev. Lawrence Martin Jenco, freed after almost 19
months as hostage, says he was held with Anderson and two other
hostages for a year.
   Oct. 3 _ In a videotaped appeal, Anderson and David Jacobsen
call on the Reagan administration to work as hard for their release
as it did to secure the release of journalist Nicholas Daniloff in
Moscow.
   Oct. 31 _ Beirut TV stations broadcast videotape showing
Anderson's 16-month-old daughter, whom he has never seen.
   Nov. 2 _ Jacobsen, freed after 17 months in captivity, says
hostages ``are in hell.''
   Nov. 15 _ Islamic Jihad releases new picture of Anderson.
   Dec. 28 _ Fourth picture of Anderson sent by captors to Western
news agency in Beirut.
   1987
   Jan. 16 _ Islamic Jihad distributes another picture of Anderson.
   June 7 _ Anderson's daughter is shown on Lebanese television on
her second birthday saying, ``Our hearts are broken. Where is
daddy?''
   Aug. 2 _ Sixth photo of Anderson released by Islamic Jihad.
   Oct. 21 _ Islamic Jihad releases another photo of Anderson.
   Oct. 27 _ Anderson turns 40. Friends and family gather at
Jefferson Memorial in Washington and AP staff in Beirut goes to his
vacant office to mark the day.
   Nov. 26 _ Jacobsen says he learned from sources in the U.S.
government and the Middle East that Anderson is being held again in
chains and blindfolded 24 hours a day.
   Dec. 10 _ Anderson passes his 1,000th day as a hostage.
   Dec. 24 _ Islamic Jihad release a videotape of Anderson.
Appearing to read from a prepared text, he criticizes the Reagan
administration for failing to secure the release of himself and
other Americans and warns ``there's a limit how long we can last.''
   Dec. 30 _ A London newspaper reports that a CIA analysis of the
tape indicated Anderson may be held in Basta prison in west Beirut
with missing Anglican Church envoy Terry Waite.
   1988
   March 16 _ Anderson begins his fourth year in captivity.
   April 10 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied
by a photo of Anderson, that it will kill its captives if any
attempt is made to storm a Kuwaiti jetliner hijacked by Shiite
extremists.
   May 4 _ Islamic Jihad freed three French hostages.
   May 9 _ Release French hostage Marcel Fontaine, also held by
Islamic Jihad, says Anderson's greatest fear is that the Americans
will launch a commando raid to free him, an action he believes
would mean his certain death.
   Aug. 18 _ Islamic Jihad issues a photo of Anderson with a
statement saying he and another U.S, hostage will not be freed
soon, squelching speculation they would be released following the
gulf war cease-fire. It also contains new demands: an Israeli
withdrawal from south Lebanon and compensation for the
reconstruction of south Lebanon and south Beirut.
   Oct. 3 _ Mithileshwar Singh, and Indian national and U.S.
rediaent alien, is freed by another Shiite faction.
   Oct. 21 _ Islamic Jihad threatens to ``punish'' its captives in
retaliation for Israeli air raids in south Lebanon. A photo of
Anderson accompanies the statement.
   Oct. 23 _ Islamic Jihad threatens in a statement, accompanied by
a photo of Anderson, that its American hostages will a price that
``will reflect adversely'' on them if the group's demands are not
met.
   Oct. 24 _ Islamic Jihad denies any connection with a Lebanese
woman arrested in Milan with a photo of Anderson and another U.S.
hostage.
   Oct. 27 _ Anderson is 41, his fourth birthday in captivity.
Islamic Jihad issues a photo of him to authenticate a statement
again denying any connection with the women held in Milan.
   Oct. 31 _ Islamic Jihad issues a videotape of Anderson to mark
his 41st birthday. He says the U.S. government is impeding his
release and adds: ``I find it difficult to keep my hope and courage
high.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>

