
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ920214-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
920214-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Clinton Explanation of How He Escaped
   Draft Leaves Unanswered Questions
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
02/14/92
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<NS>
POLITICS (PLT)
</NS>
<RE>
NORTH AMERICA (NME)
UNITED STATES (US)
</RE>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton's detailed
explanation of how he avoided the draft during the Vietnam
War still contains some gaps and unanswered questions.
   There have been gradations and variations in the
Democratic presidential contender's story since last week,
when The Wall Street Journal published an article on how he
escaped the draft during two key months in the fall of 1969.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is now clear that the 23-year-old Mr. Clinton, like
many of his peers at that time, worked to obtain a draft
deferment during the summer of that year, when he felt
certain he was about to be called up for military service.
   Gov. Clinton has said he later dropped that deferment
because he felt it was morally wrong to keep it while his
friends died in combat. But in a letter he wrote at the time,
he said he dropped the deferment to maintain his "political
viability." And it appears that he didn't actually subject
himself to the draft until it became clear that he had a
reasonable chance of escaping induction altogether.
   Here's a closer look at the questions that are raised by
his statements:
                                                                                                       

   Did Gov. Clinton ever intend to enroll in the Reserve
Officer Training Corps program at the University of Arkansas,
as he agreed to do at the time he received his deferment?
   Mr. Clinton never enrolled in either the ROTC or the
University of Arkansas, making dubious the circumstances
under which he received the deferment at such a critical
time. What's more, in a letter to his ROTC recruiter, Mr.
Clinton admitted, "I had no interest in the ROTC program
itself" and concedes that he may have "deceived" the
recruiter about his attitude.
   Mr. Clinton has said on several occasions recently that
for a brief period in the summer of 1969, he did intend to
join the ROTC and the University of Arkansas, but only after
finishing the second year of his Rhodes scholarship at Oxford
University in England. Col. Eugene Holmes, director of the
ROTC program at the University of Arkansas, says it would
have been improper for him to grant a deferment for Mr.
Clinton if he had no intention of joining the ROTC program
until a year later.
                                                                                                       

   When Mr. Clinton backed out of his agreement to join the
ROTC, was his intention to subject himself to the draft?
   That's what he has said in his statements and in his
letter. But Mr. Clinton didn't back out of the agreement
until after a statement on Sept. 19, 1969, by President Nixon
that made it clear that few new conscripts would be called
until December, when a draft lottery system was to begin. Mr.
Clinton has said he was unaware of any plans for a lottery
system at the time he backed out of his ROTC agreement, but
the president's comments were widely publicized.
   On the surface, Mr. Clinton's ROTC deferment, which lasted
2 1/2 months, enabled him to escape almost certain induction
and instead put him into a lottery system where his chances
of being called were smaller.
                                                                                                       

   Why did Mr. Clinton wait until Dec. 3, 1969, to write to
Col. Holmes about his harsh views of the draft, the war and
the ROTC?
   The letter provides no answer to that question. But it was
written two days after the lottery numbers were announced.
Mr. Clinton drew an extremely high number, 311, making it
clear that his chances of ever being called into service were
very small. After that, he may have felt freer to confess his
feelings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>

