<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="LA042490-0142 LA051190-0185 AP900511-0159 AP900424-0035
LA042790-0205 AP900512-0038 AP900419-0121 WSJ910529-0003
LA042190-0060 AP900426-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Actress Elizabeth Taylor, 58 was admitted to Daniel Freeman Marina
Hospital on April 8 with a sinus infection and was transferred to
St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica on April 16
because of a persistent fever and pneumonia.

Miss Taylor was in stable condition in the hospital's intensive-care
unit and was being treated intravenously with antibiotics at St John's
when she suffered a relapse.

She was breathing with the help of a ventilator after undergoing
surgery aimed at determining the cause of the pneumonia that had kept
her hospitalized for three weeks.

The results of the biopsy showed that Miss Taylor was suffering from
bacterial pneumonia and a yeast infection.

Bacterial pneumonia was generally considered less serious than the
viral pneumonia Miss Taylor initially contracted.  That's because
antibiotics are effective against bacteria but not viruses.  Her
doctors said that she was tolerating the antibiotic therapy extremely
well but at that time, she was expected to stay in the hospital for
another six weeks.

During a news conference, doctors revealed that Miss Taylor was near
death on April 22.

During a nearly fatal bout with pneumonia in 1961, Miss Taylor
underwent a tracheotomy, an incision into her windpipe to help her
breathe.  Dr. John Mohler, a pulmonary disease specialist at the USC
School of Medicine said "it would seem that there is something
basically wrong with her lung structure or function.  When she gets
pneumonia, apparently it's more severe."

Taylor has been plagued with health problems for years, particularly
recurring back troubles that began with a fall from a horse during
filming of the 1945 movie "National Velvet."

In 1983, she acknowledged a 35-year addiction to sleeping pills and
painkillers.  Miss Taylor has been treated for alcohol and drug abuse
at the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage.

The Los Angles County district attorney's office declined to press
charges against several physician after looking into allegations that
they over-prescribed painkillers to Miss Taylor.

Visitors throughout Miss Taylor's hospitalization included her four
children, Maria Burton-Carson, Liza Todd-Tivey and Christopher and
Michael Wilding. Other visitors included Michael Jackson, Roddy
McDowall, Carol Bayer Sager and Larry Fortensky.

During Miss Taylor's stay at St. John's hospital, the tabloids had
been humming with rumors that Liz Taylor had AIDS.

After Miss Taylor's recovery she filed a $20 million lawsuit against
The National Enquirer that was settled out of court for an
undetermined amount.</SUM>
