<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900419-0121"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">  

Actress Elizabeth Taylor, 58, is listed in stable condition at
St. John's Hospital and Health Center. She was admitted to Daniel
Freeman Marina Hospital on April 8 with a sinus infection and was
later transferred to St. John's because of a persistent fever and
pneumonia.

"She is currently being treated intravenously with antibiotics and
will remain hospitalized," said Dr. Patricia Murray, an infectious
disease specialist.

The actress had a nearly fatal bout of pneumonia in 1961. Her health
problems started with back problems after falling from a horse when
she was 13. In 1983, she admitted a 35-year addiction to sleeping
pills and painkillers.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042190-0060"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">       

On Friday, The Los Angeles County district attorney's office declined
to press charges against several physicians after looking into
allegations that they over-prescribed painkillers to actress Elizabeth
Taylor.

In a written report, the district attorney's office said the
prescribing practices "fell below the accepted standard of medical
practice," but added the doctors "were also attempting to deal with
her addiction through alternative means of therapy and treatment, and
"devoid of criminal intent."

The report went on to say that one of the physicians repeatedly tried
to persuade Miss Taylor to enter a rehabilitation clinic but she
rejected these efforts until October 1988.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900426-0054"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Elizabeth has rallied from a near fatal bout with pneumonia but is
"not out of the woods," doctors say.

"I believe her life was in jeopardy over the weekend and I believe
that has now passed said Dr. Bernard Weintraub of St. Johns Hospital
and Health Center.

The actress was taken off the ventilator that had aided her breathing
for several days and is smiling again said Dr. Patricia Murray, an
infectious disease specialist.

About 80 reporters and camera crew members, along with about 100
hospital employees were on hand to hear the latest report on Miss
Taylor.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900424-0035"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Elizabeth Taylor battled pneumonia at her hospital, assisted by a
ventilator, doctors say.

Hospital officials described her condition late Monday as stabilizing
after a lung biopsy to determine the cause of the pneumonia.  Analysis
of the tissue sample was expected to be complete by Thursday.

Ms. Sam, a spokeswoman said "it is serious, but they are really
pleased with her progress.  She's not well.  She's not on her deathbed
or anything."

Another spokeswoman, Lisa Del Favaro, said Miss Taylor's family was at
her bedside.

During a nearly fatal bout with pneumonia in 1961, Miss Taylor
underwent a tracheotomy to help her breathe.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042490-0142"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Elizabeth Taylor is breathing with the help of a ventilator after
undergoing surgery aimed at determining the cause of pneumonia that
has kept her hospitalized for three weeks, her physicians said on
Monday.

In a prepared statement, Miss Taylor doctors said she was admitted to
St. Johns Hospital last week for treatment of the pneumonia, and was
listed in serious condition in the hospital's intensive-care unit.

Miss Taylor's four children, Maria Burton-Carson, Liza Todd-Tivey and
Christopher and Michael Wilding were with her at the hospital.

Dr. John Mohler, of the USC School of Medicine said the biopsy will
dictate what therapy to use.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA051190-0185"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Pneumonia-Stricken actress Elizabeth Taylor has suffered complications
in her fifth week of hospitalization and doctors say she will be
hospitalized six more weeks for intravenous therapy.

Bacterial pneumonia and a yeast infection her doctors said today have
complicated the recovery of Miss Taylor, near death two weeks ago with
a viral pneumonia.

"Miss Taylor has a resolving, newly acquired bacterial pneumonia
secondary to her hospital stay at St. John's Hospital and Health
Center," the doctors said.

Bacterial pneumonia is generally considered less serious than the
viral pneumonia Taylor initially contracted because antibiotics are
effective against bacteria but not viruses.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910529-0003"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Actress Elizabeth Taylor and the National Enquirer said they reached a
settlement in Miss Taylor's $20 million lawsuit against the newspaper
tabloid.

The lawsuit rose out of two articles published by the Enquirer in June
1990 reporting on Miss Taylor's condition and activities at St. John's
Hospital where she was treated for pneumonia.

The Enquirer said that after reviewing Miss Taylor's medical records,
it is satisfied the articles reporting that she was drinking were in
error.

The amount of the settlement was not disclosed but her attorney, Neil
Papiano said, "we were persuaded that it was certainly large enough
that we shouldn't go to trial."</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900511-0159"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Elizabeth Taylor, hospitalized for viral pneumonia, suffered
complications including bacterial pneumonia and a yeast infection and
will be hospitalized for about six more weeks, doctors said on Friday.

Miss Taylor is being treated with antibiotics that are effective
against bacteria but not viruses.

"She is tolerating this therapy extremely well and her doctors are
pleased with her progress," Miss Taylor's publicist, Chem Sam, said
after talking to doctors.

Earlier this week, Ms. Sam said the 58-year-old actress was improving
and would be released from the hospital this week.

Last month, Miss Taylor's doctors revealed she was near death on April
22.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900512-0038"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Elizabeth Taylor will remain in St. John's hospital six more weeks due
to complications in her fifth week of treatment for pneumonia, doctors
said.

The recovery of the 58-year old actress, near death two weeks ago with
viral pneumonia, was dealt a setback by bacterial pneumonia and a
yeast infection, her doctors said Friday.

During a news conference last month, Miss Taylor's doctors revealed
she was near death on April 22.

The Oscar-winning star entered Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital on April
9 with a sinus infection but was moved to St John's for treatment of
viral pneumonia.</SUM>

<SUM
DOCSET="d24"
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA042790-0205"
SELECTOR="D"
SUMMARIZER="D">   

Reporters from across the country gathered for a news conference at
St. John's Hospital for information on the condition of Elizabeth
Taylor.  Miss Taylor has been treated for pneumonia and has been
hospitalized for 5 weeks.

It has inspired a raft of rumors and handed up a field day for the
tabloids.

Partly because of gossip, Miss Taylor's doctors at St. John's Hospital
in Santa Monica called a press conference.  No AIDS, they said.  No
cancer.  For the tabloid press has been humming with rumors that Liz
Taylor had AIDS.</SUM>
