<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="200"
DOCREF="AP890811-0011 LA092189-0140 AP880811-0019 AP890809-0205
LA011790-0024 SJMN91-06070029 WSJ871109-0152 AP881201-0117
AP900622-0121 AP881027-0166"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 

Following the success of the Gulf War, General Colin Powell, Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was prominent among Pentagon leaders
about whom talk began of electoral careers.

His attributes were valued by Democrats as well as Republicans.  The
Democratic Party was attuned to his personal life values: born in
Harlem of hardworking Jamaican immigrants, raised in South Bronx, and
attended City College of New York, ROTC.  He was wounded on both tours
in Viet Nam.  He encouraged support of minorities and told of battles
with racial discrimination.  His positions on foreign policy and
aggressive use of US forces put him in the mainstream of the GOP.

A senior aide under three cabinet officers, he served as Deputy
National Security Adviser, then replaced Carlucci as National Security
Adviser in later 1987.  President Reagan promoted him to four-star
rank and appointed him Commander-in-Chief of the Army's Forces
Command.  In August 1989, under President Bush, he was approved as
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  He fit the mold of Bush's
national security advisers--pragmatists favoring consensus building
over confrontation.  He helped the Reagan White House recover from the
Iran-Contra affair and guided preparations for summits with
Gorbachev. </SUM>
