<SUM
TYPE="MULTI"
SIZE="400"
DOCREF="AP890811-0011 LA092189-0140 AP880811-0019 AP890809-0205
LA011790-0024 SJMN91-06070029 WSJ871109-0152 AP881201-0117
AP900622-0121 AP881027-0166"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  

Following the success of the Gulf War, talk began of electoral careers
for the victorious Pentagon leaders.  Prominent among these was
General Colin Powell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  He
had, in fact, attributes that were valued by both the Democrats and
the Republicans.  The Democratic Party was attuned to values acquired
from his personal life.

Powell was born in Harlem of Jamaican immigrant parents who struggled
to earn a living.  Raised in the South Bronx, he took advantage of
opportunities for blacks in the City College of New York through the
college's ROTC program.  He received an MBA from George Washington
University in Washington, D.C.  Wounded on both of his tours in Viet
Nam, he received the Distinguished Service Medal, the Bronze Star, and
the Purple Heart.  In his time off, he told young blacks to spend
their lives helping to open the doors for minorities and told of his
battles with racial discrimination.

His positions on foreign policy and the aggressive use of US forces
abroad put him in the mainstream of the GOP.  He was well known within
the tightly knit national security establishment.  He had been a
senior aide under three cabinet officers and, 15 years ago, worked
under Frank Carlucci, who became Secretary of Defense in November
1987.  Powell, serving as Deputy National Security Adviser, was named
the new National Security Adviser, replacing Carlucci.  The following
year he was mentioned as a possible running mate for Vice-President
George Bush, but he was soon promoted to four-star rank by President
Reagan and given the post of Commander-in-Chief of the Army's Forces
Command.  This made him the fourth black officer to attain four-star
rank in the US armed forces.

In August 1989, the 52-year old General Powell was nominated Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Bush.  Winning easy
confirmation, he became the first black and the youngest-ever officer
to hold the post.  Powell fit the mold of Bush's national security
advisers, like-minded pragmatists favoring consensus building rather
than confrontation.  He was credited with helping the Reagan White
House recover from the Iran-Contra affair and with guiding
preparations for summits with Gorbachev.

Powell believed that reforms in the Soviet Union would allow us to
reshape our defense programs, national security policies, and armed
forces.  He warned that a scaleback should be prompted by changes in
Soviet military capabilities not by budget restraints.  </SUM>
