<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA092189-0140"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 

General Colin Powell won unanimous approval from the Senate Armed
Services Committee on Wednesday to be Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff.  Powell told the panel he has "some level of confidence" that
reforms might succeed in the Soviet Union, giving the US
"opportunities" to reshape our defense programs, our national security
policies, and our armed forces.  He warned that changes in Soviet
military capabilities, not budget restraints, should prompt the
scaleback and called for continual modernization of long-range nuclear
weapons.  He also said he would make the military's role in the drug
war one of his top priorities.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900622-0121"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
 
General Colin Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, made his
first major commentary Friday on the Pentagon budget battle, warning
against a return to the post- Vietnam and World War II reductions.  He
said, "I have been reminded time and again" this is still a dangerous
world and you'd better be ready to respond if someone challenges your
interests."  Adding that the Soviet Union will remain a superpower
into the next century, he warned, "not to confuse a decline in defense
spending with a decline in the nation's enduring defense needs to deal
with the enduring realities we face."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890811-0011"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

General Colin Powell was nominated Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff Thursday by President Bush.  He is expected to win easy Senate
confirmation and make history as the first black and the youngest ever
officer to hold the post.  Powell fits the mold of Bush's national
security advisers, like-minded pragmatists favoring consensus building
rather than confrontation.  He is considered fair in presenting others
viewpoints and fits a role where diplomacy and political finesse with
Congress is as essential as battlefield instincts.  He was credited
with helping the Reagan White House recover from the Iran- Contra
Affair and with guiding preparations for summits with Gorbachev.
</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06070029"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
  
Following the success of the Gulf War, talk is beginning of electoral
careers for the victorious Pentagon leaders; namely, Colin Powell, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  He has attributes valued by
both Democrats and Republicans.  His positions on foreign policy and
aggressive use of the US forces abroad put him in the mainstream of
the GOP, but the Democratic Party is attuned to values from his
personal life.  Powell was born in Harlem of Jamaican immigrant
parents who struggled to earn a living, was raised in South Bronx, and
took advantage of opportunities for blacks in City College of New
York's ROTC program.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA011790-0024"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
  
At a meeting in Vienna, General Colin Powell, Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, endorsed the East Bloc's move toward a more defensive
military posture and reassured his Warsaw Pact (WP) counterparts that
the US and its NATO allies will not launch an offensive military
operation against Eastern Europe.  However, he defended US military
initiatives that have introduced to Europe new, long-range weapons
designed to attack Soviet reinforcement forces for WP first-wave
attack.  There is intelligence information that the Soviets still have
large supplies of spare weapons parts and ammunition near the
East-West border available for an offensive operation.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP890809-0205"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

General Colin Powell is expected to be named the new chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff.  He became national security adviser in 1987
and heads the U.S. Forces Command at Fort McPherson in Atlanta,
putting him in charge of troop readiness and deployment for the
U.S. Army.  He has emphasized he is proud of the accomplishments of
the average U.S. soldier over the years.  In his time off, he tells
young blacks to spend their lives helping to open the doors for
minorities and tells of his battles with racial discrimination.  His
daily interest is keeping troops ready for combat.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881027-0166"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

National Security Adviser Colin Powell, in a speech to the National
Press Club Thursday, credited Mikhail Gorbachev for pushing economic
reform and acknowledging the problems the Soviet system faces, but
added it remains to be seen whether it can be fixed as long as it
remains a communist, one-party system.  He said that resistance forces
fighting communism and totalitarians have made great strides in
Afghanistan, Angola, and Cambodia.  He added, "....a principle lesson
to be learned from the various regional conflicts is that American
foreign policy has tended to succeed in instances in which U.S.
support was unquestioned,"; e.g., Afghanistan.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP880811-0019"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">  
 
Lt. General Colin Powell, the National Security Adviser, has been
suggested as a possible running mate for Vice President George Bush by
a newspaper column and some federal government officials.  Powell, on
at least two occasions, when reporters were questioning the President
and then the Secretary of Defense, made no comment about his
prospects.  The most recent thing Powell has said about his future was
in a speech on July 19 in Los Angeles.  He said he expected "to go
back to a nice quiet foxhole where I can serve my country in a more
comfortable and perhaps less exposed position."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ871109-0152"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G"> 
  
Lt. General Colin Powell, who has been serving as Deputy National
Security Adviser, was named the new National Security Adviser last
week.  He appears to be the right man for the right job at this stage
of the Reagan administration.  General Powell, a genial and
plainspoken 50-year old, is well known within the tightly knit
national security establishment.  He has combat experience in Vietnam.
He has been a senior aide under three cabinet officers and 15 years
ago worked under Frank Carlucci, the current National Security Advisor
now appointed Secretary of Defense.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP881201-0117"
SELECTOR="G"
SUMMARIZER="G">   

President Reagan will nominate National Security Advisor Colin Powell
for promotion to four-start rank and the post of Commander-in-Chief of
the Army's Forced Command.  This would make the 51-year old Powell the
fourth black officer to attain four-start rank in the US armed forces.
The new job includes preparing soldiers for worldwide deployment and
defending the US continent.  Powell is a graduate of City University
in New York and has an MBA from George Washington University in
Washington.  Wounded on both of his tours in Viet Nam, he holds the
Distinguished Service Medal, the Bronze Star, and the Purple
Heart. </SUM>
