<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900809-0022"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">

Dateline August 9, 1990.  Yesterday Iraq announced that it formally
annexed Kuwait, the neighboring, oil-producing nation it invaded last
Thursday.  The U.S. and Iraq appear closer to confrontation over the
situation.  Referring to the buildup of U.S. forces in the Region,
Iraq said they would fight.  America's President Bush stressed that
our force buildup is intended to defend the threatened Saudi kingdom.

Iraq fields a battle-trained army wielding modern Soviet-made tanks
and formidable air- defense weapons.  It's surface-to-surface Scud
missiles and chemical arsenal is daunting.  However, General Powell
said, "We view them as a capable military force.  But they are not
invincible...."  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC" 
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ900813-0157"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">

The United States has been asked by the ousted Kuwaiti government to
enforce the total trade embargo imposed by the United Nations on Iraq.
The White House said it would do "whatever is necessary".  Saddam
Hussein, to launch negotiations and to rally Arab support, announced
that he would withdraw his troops from Kuwait only if Israel withdraws
from occupied Arab lands.  The U.S. believes that a trade blockade
will eventually force Iraq into withdrawing from Kuwait or into
lashing out elsewhere.  The unpredictability of Iraqi's leader is a
principal reason why the U.S. is building such a mammoth force in the
region.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900815-0044"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
 
Saddam Hussein, facing opposition troops at the Saudi border, today
sought peace with neighboring Iran.  Meanwhile, the Soviet Union
attempts mediation efforts with other Arab states.  Jordan's King
Hussein, carrying a message from Saddam, will meet with President Bush
on Thursday.  And the U.S. military buildup continues at a feverish
pace.  Cheney may urge Bush to call up the armed forces reserves.
Soviet women, children and invalids caught in Iraq are allowed to
leave through Jordan; however, approximately 3000 U.S. citizens may
not.  There have been reports of wholesale Iraqi looting in Kuwait.
And last, oil prices have risen steeply.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900816-0139"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  

President Bush offered to help Jordan's King Hussein offset costs
incurred to shut down Jordan's port at Aqaba, Iraq's last remaining
trade outlet.  The U.S. Navy now has 27 ships in the maritime blockade
of Iraq.  The U.N. economic chokehold appears to be working.

Saddam Hussein said the outbreak of war would cost thousands of
Americans lives.  Iraq has increased its armed forces in Kuwait to
160,000 and rimmed the capital city with an air-defense system.

It has been reported that Saddam was the target of an assassination
attempt, which led to many arrests, including some of his close
associates.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900816-0166"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
 
After eight years of war with Iran, Iraq was still powerful but broke.
Its oil revenues fell as did oil prices.  Saddam blamed the problem on
Kuwait and the UAE for exceeding their oil quotas.  From July 17
through August 1 Iraq made accusations of injustice and threats of
retribution.  On August 2 Iraqi infantry stormed into Kuwait.  Kuwaiti
Emir Sheik Jabir fled by helicopter.  He made an urgent plea for
U.S. military assistance.  President Bush condemned Iraq's aggression
and then engineered a United Nations- sanctioned embargo of Iraq.
Bush then committed a massive American force to protect </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900822-0016"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
    
A chronology of the crisis: From August 1 through 5, Iraq threatened,
invaded then consolidated its hold on Kuwait.  August 6 through 9, the
United Nations orders a trade embargo against Iraq; the U.S. begins a
regional military buildup; Iraq seals its borders.  August 10 through
13, Arab countries join in the defense of Saudi Arabia.  Saddam seeks
Arab support by involving Israel in any possible settlement.  August
14 through 16, King Hussein of Jordan fails in his mediation efforts.
August 17 through 21, the U.S. increases its buildup and embargo
efforts.  Iraq uses hostages as shields at military
installations. </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="AP900911-0198"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
  
Cracks appeared in the U.N. trade embargo against Iraq.  The State
Department reports that Cuba and Romania have struck oil deals with
Iraq as others attempt to trade with Baghdad in defiance of the
sanctions.  Iran has agreed to exchange food and medicine for Iraqi
oil.  Saddam has offered developing nations free oil if they send
their tankers to pick it up.  Thus far, none has accepted.

Japan, accused of responding too slowly to the Gulf crisis, has
promised $2 billion in aid to countries hit hardest by the Iraqi trade
embargo.  President Bush has promised that Saddam's aggression will
not succeed.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="LA091790-0041"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">
  
Today President Bush addressed the people of Iraq.  He said that Iraqi
leadership decided to occupy Kuwait, a member of the United Nations
and the Arab League.  The world will not allow this aggression to
stand.  Iraq must withdraw from Kuwait for the sake of principle, of
peace and for the sake of the Iraqi people.  Bush said that after
eight long years of war with Iran, he does not believe the Iraqi
people again want war.  Neither does America.  It is still possible to
end this crisis peacefully.  Iraq stands against the world.  It cannot
win.  It must withdraw from Kuwait.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06031281"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
 
The Bush Administration has submitted arguments to justify war with
Iraq to the United Nations.  Bush critics argued against war.

The failure of political initiatives since the August invasion of
Kuwait has culminated in a Congressional vote to approve U.S. military
force.  Should war start, allied bombing raids may disrupt Iraqi
communications, disable rocket launchers, anti-aircraft artillery and
chemical and nuclear sites.  Then troops will smash Iraqi tanks and
ground forces.  Over one million Iraqi troops face a vast array of
international troops and weaponry.  A short war should not engender
long-term international economic disruption.  A long war might.</SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SJMN91-06053223"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
 
President Bush delivered an ultimatum to Iraq to begin immediate and
unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait.  The withdrawal from Kuwait City
must be complete within 48 hours and from the country in one week.
Further, Iraq must release all prisoners of war and third-country
citizens within 48 hours.  The subject of war reparations was not
mentioned.  Shortly thereafter, the Soviet announced a six-point set
of provisions containing Iraqi agreement to withdraw from Kuwait
within 21 days of a cease-fire.

Bush accused Saddam of launching a scorched earth policy in Kuwait by
setting fire to the oil fields.  Round-the-clock U.S. air attacks
continue.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910222-0008"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">

From January 16 through February 21, U.S. and allied air forces have
conducted ferocious bombing attacks against the Iraqi military and
national infrastructure.  Iraq has responded with missile attacks
against Saudi Arabia and Israel.  Iraq now proposes an eight-point
settlement plan offering full and unconditional withdrawal from
Kuwait.  However, U.N. sanctions must be lifted and resolutions
condemning and punishing Iraq must cease.  President Bush has serious
problems with the plan.  It essentially would leave Saddam in power
with his Republican Guard and a significant military establishment
still intact.  Leaders of Israel and bordering Arab states still fear
an armed Saddam Hussein.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910225-0066"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
    
The U.S. ground war to liberate Kuwait is proceeding with surprising
speed and success.  Thousands of Iraqi prisoners have been taken in
the first hours of fighting leaving much equipment destroyed or
abandoned in Kuwait.  Officials are optimistic the war can begin to
wind down in a matter of days.  However, allied forces may still
suffer greater casualties.  Iraq has still not unleashed its stockpile
of chemical weapons.  Paradoxically, the perception that the
U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam's support within the
Iraqi military and the Arab world since we didn't back the peace
proposals brokered in Moscow.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910227-0075"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
    
The Iraqi army is in full retreat.  Saddam has announced that he is
ordering it out of Kuwait.  Iraqi forces appear confused, battle-weary
and leaderless.  Prisoners are growing rapidly.  U.S. casualties are
minor; however, we still have not faced the elite Iraqi Republican
Guard.  The U.S. is intent on putting an end to Saddam as both a
military threat and an Arab hero without making him a martyr through
U.S overkill.  U.S. officials are prepared to cope with a hostile
Saddam after the liberation of Kuwait but are hopeful that forces
within Iraq will topple him within weeks or months.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910228-0028"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 
      
Will the smashing allied victory in Kuwait lead to stability in the
area?  A first order of business is to stabilize the Iraqi-Kuwaiti
border and bring U.S. forces home.  However, major regional political
problems may surface.  There is the Palestinian issue.  Jordan's King
Hussein and Yasser Arafat's open sympathy for Iraq has strained their
relations with the U.S.  The biggest wild-card may be Iran.
Anti-Western sentiment could vent itself through Islamic
fundamentalism, a potential problem for Syria, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
Some believe Iran might clash with Saudi Arabia over oil policy and
also attempt to establish an Islamic state in Iraq.  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="WSJ910412-0119"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B"> 

President Bush developed a coherent military strategy and political
coalition to defeat the aggression of Saddam Hussein.  Now, after a
brilliant military victory, the United Nations is committed to
implementing policies to destroy all remaining Iraq chemical and
biological weapons and missiles.  Although professing good will,
indications are that Saddam will attempt to obstruct these efforts.
His acts of cruelty toward neighbors demonstrate that he is not
trustworthy.  Will the U.N. and President Bush hold firm in their
resolve to force compliance on a deceitful Saddam?  If not, how can we
ever hope to promote and enforce a settlement to the Arab-Israeli
conflict?  </SUM>

<SUM
TYPE="PERDOC"
SIZE="100"
DOCREF="SMN91-06154062"
SELECTOR="B"
SUMMARIZER="B">  
  
We continue to assess the aftermath of the war.  Saddam consolidates
power by placing family members in key government jobs.
U.N. sanctions take their toll as rationing is in place.  Kuwaiti
society seems directionless and is slow to rebuild.  Former foreign
workers have mostly departed.  Efforts continue to extinguish the
approximately 600 fires in Kuwaiti oil well fields.  The value of
U.S. sophisticated weaponry, Air Force A-10 Thunderbolts and navy
transport ships is underscored.  Patriot missiles, the M-1 tank,
Bradley Fighting Vehicle and Marine Corps amphibious attack vessels
all remain in question.  Displaced Kurds return to home in Northern
Iraq.  </SUM>
